 

. Nashington and Lee University

‘Students
‘attacked

  

     

« I2 

 

f v

‘i .1 ,4.
F5:
‘ft ""lP‘A

2"‘!
, I.
C-.

Lseytf 

PAGE 5

VOLUME 100, NUMBER 8

ange.”
SinceConnier
had seen the

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK

that these men
NEWS EDITOR

were trouble.

“I told them
that I wasn’t (in
the mood for ul-
tra violence),” he

 

reshmen Tim Cormier has

seen the movie “A Clock-

work Orange,” which glori-
ﬁes violence and rape, several times.

TEE-enerals slam
§warthmpre; in

season finale.

violence,” one of the men said, quot-
ing a line from “A Clockwork Or-

movie, he knew ,

Does VMI
prepare
men for
“The. Real
World?"
Dave

find out.

 

‘(HE

R: L _
woRl—D

Burns, senior, may just

A

 

PAGE 3

 

ran away,” Cormier said.
Three juvenilles were arrested by
the Lexington Police later that night,

said W&L Security
Chief Michael
Young.

I’m in the mood for

_ They are also
some ultra-violence

suspected of as-

__ attacker saulting a law stu-
dent Saturday
7’ night.

Cormier suf-

When he was walking home from
Phi Gamma Delta Saturday, he didn’t
expect to have a run-in with an aﬁ-
zionado of the ﬁlm.

Cormier was walking up Washing-
:on Street around I I p.m., on his way
to check on a friend, when three men
accosted him near Lee House.

“I’m in the mood for some ultra-

Smoking

be banned in

said.

The three men knocked Cormier to
the ground. To protect himself, he
rolled over on his left side and as-
sumed the fetal position.

The men started kicking and
punching him all over his body.

“I think they saw a security guard
or something because they ﬁnally just

fered minor injuries: a cut and
bruised«hand, a swollen arm and
cuts and bruises on the right side of
his head.

He was treated at Stonewall
Jackson Hospital. Cormier plans to
press charges against thejuvenilles.

— Hollister Hovey contributed to
this article.

may

They've got a ml

bucks, of W&L’s endowment
to invest. Do you know

W110 they are?

JA'\IlF=.Q r: LEYBURN LIBRARY
71%-I-2t?’slIi'J§i?|l-ON &  
LEXINGTONNA 

NOV 181$Z

PAGE 7

Uh iliing-tum Iﬂlti

Rats

llion

 

Bulk Rate
US Postage
PAID
Pennit No. 7
Lexington. Va.

Monday
NOVEMBER 17, 1997

riot

400 break into mess hall

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK
~——--eNEws EDITOR

They wereithrowing dishes, tear-
ing stuff off the walls and smash-
ing up a Post Police car. An upper-
classman cadet said it was “just bed-
time.” Some might call it a riot.

Virginia Military Institute Post
Police Ofﬁcer Matt Bennett called
the Lexington Police Department
for backup around 11:15 p.m. Sun-
day after a late-night rat activity got
out of control. Lexington Police
Ofﬁcer Michael Hess was on the
scene.

“There was a riot going on and
they needed more officers,” Hess
said. “The rats were tearing stuff
offthe walls ofthe cafeteria, break-
ing dishes and throwing chairs.”

Hess arrested 21-year-old cadet
Samora Leacock for smashing the
windshield ofa Post Police vehicle.

“When I got there, he was the
only one left messing with the car,”
Hess said. “But people said that
there were 20 or 30 guys trying to
overturn the car.”

“He (Leacock) said that he was
told by his superiors to do it, and that
he was following orders,” Hess said.
“All of the upperclassmen were just
standing around and watching.”

The riot was a “show of rat mass

unity,” and was the ﬁrst one this year,
a reliable source at VMI said. The rats
attempted to burn down the barracks
last year, he said. “But you can’t light
cement on ﬁre.”

The rats’ original intention Sunday
night was to take the chairs from the
mess hall and spell out “98” in the
middle of the football ﬁeld. _

“98” signiﬁes this year’s graduat-
ing class. Each rat has a special rela-
tionship to one senior, a mentor that
they call a “dyke.”

However, the rats got overzealous.
They broke into the mess hall to get
the chairs and began tipping over the
tables, which were already set for
Monday’s breakfast, and broke doz-
ens of plates and glasses.

“When you get a bunch of young
kids together this kind of thing is go-
ing to happen,” junior Ben Murray
said.

A frenzy like this breaks out ev-
ery year, and this year was no worse
than last year, with the exception of
the demolished car, Hess said.

“The class starts out as 425 indi-
viduals,” Hess said. “And at the end
of the year, they are supposed to be a
one-minded group. And that group
gets together and destroys stuf 

 SEE RIOT PAGE 2

seeping  om eyes

Gaines residents

BY WILL HARDIE
-—e—————: COPY EDITOR

A local man was caught peering at
female students through a Gaines Dor-
mitory window Friday night. Brian S.
Armentrout, 21, was served a tresspass
notice, meaning he will be arrested if
caught on campus again.

A 9mm automatic pistol was later
found in his posession. Since the gun
was unloaded, Lexington police could
not charge him with a weapons viola-
tion.

At 8:20 p.m. Friday, sophomore
Lauren Walter noticed a strange man
looking at her through the window of
her ﬁrst ﬂoor Gaines suite. “He looked
ﬁshy, so we drove to security to re-
port it,” she said. The man had long
blond hair and a small beard, and was
wearing a gray ﬂeece and blue jeans.

The man’s description was immedi-
ately broadcast on security radio, which
is also monitored by Lexington police.
By the time Walter returned to Gaines,
a Washington and Lee security car and

a police squad car were on the scene. _

Walter told the officers that the
stranger had driven off along Wash-
ington Street in a blue Chevrolet
Cavalier, and gave them the licence
number.

Lexington police and W&L secu-
rity ofﬁcers spread out to search for
the stalker. Driving out of town on
Route 60, police spotted his Cavalier
heading back into town.

They spun round at the junction of
Liberty Hall Road and turned on their
sirens. The police car and a W&L se-
curity car pursued Armentrout back
into Lexington and up Washington

Street. Joined by a second police car
they pulled him over opposite Lee
House. A third police car screeched
up soon afterwards, and a small crowd
of students gathered round.

Security Ofﬁcer Rodney Early said
Armentrout was shocked by the rapid
response. “He was freaked, like, where
did all these people come from so
fast?” he said. “This was the bust of
the year,” said Security Ofﬁcer Scott
“wild Irishman” Rowe. “We were in
front of Chi Psi when the call went
out and were there in less than ten sec-
onds.”

Lexington Police Officer Fred
Smith noticed a pistol lying on the
Cavalier’s passenger seat, so drew his
own gun and cuffed Armentrout
against the car. Armentrout’s 9mm

(L3) SEE PEEPER mg 2

public rooms

BY WILL HARDIE

COPY EDITOR

moking could be banned from all public build-
ings on campus as soon as next term, if current
draft proposals are implemented. Faculty would no
longer be allowed to smoke in their offices, and the li-
brary smoking lounges may be closed.

While some welcome the proposals as overdue, many
faculty who smoke in their ofﬁces are up in arms.

Current university policy, dating from September 1994,
bans smoking in all university public areas. Smoking is
only allowed in designated places such as some residence
hall rooms, faculty and staffofﬁces and smoking lounges.
Faculty members who smoke in their ofﬁces are asked to
keep their doors closed and are given the option of using
air ﬁlters. I

Worries about the health implications of second-hand
smoke and complaints from students, faculty and staff,
prompted the administration, the deans and Director of
Personnel Bob Fox to initiate a policy review. An addi-
tional ﬂurry of complaints resulted from the shufﬂe of
ofﬁces associated with the opening of the new Science
building. _ «

Last week Dean of the College Laurent Boetsch sent
department heads a draft policy revision, extending the
smoking ban to faculty ofﬁces. He asked for comment
and response, and received plenty.

Professor Lad Sessions, head of the philosophy depart-
ment, is in favor of the plan.

“Faculty have an obligation to their students not to scare
them away or damage their health with their smoking, and
to think more kindly of their colleagues who are bothered

 

PUFF DADDY A smoking student studies in one of
the library's smoking lounges, which may soon be
closed by the school. LORA ELLlSON/ RING-TUM PHI

by second-hand smoke,” he said.

“Smoking should be not permitted in public spaces,
and that includes faculty ofﬁces. They are not private
spaces; they are not owned by the faculty.”

Knight Professor of Journalism Louis Hodges, who
smokes in his ofﬁce, welcomed the review but criticized
the current proposals.

“There has to be a way that the university can accom-
modate the needs of non-smokers and group dedicated to
promoting free expression on campus smokers,” he said.

Boetsch said the university had expected adamant op-
position to the proposals, but that there are no real alter-
natives. The university has abandoned compromise mea-
sures such as keeping doors closed and the use of air ﬁl-
ters. Fox said these have failed to protect non-smokers
from second-hand smoke. “Any additional physical reha-
bilitation  really won’t work,” he said. I '

Sessions agreed. “It’s hard for many faculty to keep
their doors shut because they want to be open to students,”
he said, and added that smokers have not always kept to
the rules. He cited cases of smokers refusing to close doors,
refusing to turn on air ﬁlters on the grounds that they are
too noisy, and in one case refusing to get an air ﬁlter.

“Moving them all into the same building  would be
an interesting compromise,” said Sessions, “But I think it
would be undesirable for the smokers. That would mean
that they could share their smoking with one another but

fl) Isa PUFF ma 2

Protest planned against
Pat Buchanan’s speech

BY JASON ZACHER

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

The Young America’s Foundation contacted Washing-
ton and Lee’s Contact committee in an attempt to ﬁnd a
“friendly engagement for Patrick Buchanan.” But when
Buchanan speaks in Lee Chapel Tuesday evening, he will
be greeted with something he might not expect from a
small, conservative, southern school — a demonstration
against a Republican.

Seniors Victoria Kumpuris and Kate Giese sent an e-
mail last week to more than 45 students about the demon-
stration

Organizers of the demonstration stress that they are
demonstrating against Buchanan — not Contact’s deci-
sion to bring him to campus.

In the e—mail, Kumpuris said, “Apathy is the worst
reaction to these inflammatory statements. Be glad he is
coming.” *

A Kumuris is actually looking forward to attending the
speech.

“It is a great opportunity to see someone of his stature
speak,” she said.

“I think a lot ofpeople disagree with some ofthe things
in Buchanan’s platform,” added Giese.

Contact Chairman Josh Heslinga is not worried about
the protest. ’

“The only .,
concern I have is X
if the demonstra-
tion interfered
with the speech,”
Heslinga said.
“It if did, it
would reflect
poorly on the
school.”

The Young
America’s Foun-
dation, a conser-
vative group «
dedicated to pro- Patrick Buchanan
moting free expression on campuses, suggested Buchanan
to Contact. Its lecture program brings conservative speak-
ers to college campuses throughout the country.

Buchanan’s honorarium is set at $15,000. The Young
America’s Foundation is paying $5,000 of that total, Mock
Convention is paying $2,000 and Contact is picking up
the other $8,000.

“It was a real good deal to get someone with this much
name recognition,” said Heslinga. “Young America’s felt

 

 SEE PROTIST PAGE 2

 

  

PAGE 2

IICWS

NOVEMBER 17, 1997 ‘

Light shed on dismal topic  PUFF

BY MELODY ANDREOLA

SPECIAL TO THE RlNG—TUM PHI

Professor Art Goldsmith packed the house Thurs-
day evening.

His lecture, “Economics: Dismal Science or Dis-
mal Scientists,” covered the evolution of economic
thought over the last several centuries and concluded
with an optimistic vision of its future as a hopeful sci-
ence.

“My goal was to encourage people to think more
broadly about the questions that are asked in each dis-
cipline and that sometimes a conventional point of view
should be questioned.”

Goldsmith boldly denounced the assumptions ofthe
prevailing economic models using the empirical evi-
dence he has collected since the ’70s about the psy-
chology of labor.

Goldsmith’s insightful and well-supported com-
ments rang true to Professor of Economics Charles
Phillips.

“My general concern is that we’ve been more inter-

ICED RIOT

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
“We just stand by and make sure no one gets hurt,”

Hess said. Luckily, no one was iniured during the inci-
dent.

“We were all just mezrnorized at what was going on,”
the source said.

“After we made the arrest, they all started to calm
down,” Hess said. Superintendent Josiah Bunting was
called out of bed during the incident. “Alter Bunting
got there, they all just lined up and went back to bed.”

As punishment, the rats were up at 6 a.m. Monday
morning participating in a “sweat party.” The “party”
entails an extensive work-out and push-ups.

The class will probably have to raise the money to
pay for the damages, the source said.

ﬂ Will Hardie and Courtney Miller contributed to
this article.

CGTDPEEPER

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

.380 caliber gun appeared to have been recently
unloaded. The loaded clip was found under the
seat, but one shell was lying beside the gun on
top of the seat.

Armentrout was charged with driving with-
out a licence and was released. His licence had
been revoked for traffic offenses.

Walter said she saw Armentrout in Wendy’s
the following day, and that he had walked up to
her and stared at her.

“It was scary,” she said.

ested in building models than with the underlying
assumptions,” he said. “Have economists become
model builders at the expense of reality?”

“It was refreshing to see a professor who for
once let his true beliefs be known,” senior Jeremy
Adams said. “Oftentimes, especially in the C-
school, professors hide their true convictions in the
almighty name of objectivity. I had a pretty good
idea about what Professor Goldsmith believed and
his talk simply confirmed it.” '

Goldsmith tempered his economic discourse by
including his two children in the presentation, elic-
iting many smiles from the audience.

This was Goldsmith’s inaugural address for re-
ceiving the Jackson T. Stephens endowed profes-
sorship. For an endowed or chaired professorship,
a donor gives a large, lump sum to the university.
The university then invests the sum and pays the
professor from the interest earned on the invest-
ment. ~

“The endowed professorship is a way to honor
professors,” said Professor of Economics Bruce
Herrick.

‘ETD PROTEST

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

this would be a good place for a friendly engage-

ment. It will still he a friendlier engagement than
what he would receive at other campuses.”

The last political protest at W&L was 25 years
ago, when students organized protests throughout
Lexington against President Richard Nixon’s deci-
sion to mine Haiphong harbor in Vietnam.

“One should not undersell the significance of a
small southern school protesting theNixon policy,”
said Pete Swart during preparations for the 1972
protest.

Organizers at the time set up “telegram booths”
so students could send telegrams to their congress-
men about their protest.” Twenty-five years later,
Heslinga said, “They have every right to protest. I
wish them luck.”

Buchanan will speak in Lee Chapel Tuesday night
at 7:30 p.m.

Anyone who would like to join the demonstra-
tion against Buchanan is encouraged t0_contact
Victoria Kumpuris.

 CAS H
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 7

long-terrn and will not be dealing with daily fluctuations
and short-temi volatility. The Oct. 28 prices would have
been good buying prices, but WIS will invest for long-
term growth and capital appreciation.

Barret and Deupree developed the idea for WIS last
year. While studying at the London School of Econom-
ics, Barret met other American students who had ben-
eﬁted from investment organizations on their campuses.
He and Deupree agreed that an investment group would
be natural at Washington and Lee.

“lt’s a common-sense extension of student interests
and has a strong precedent,” Barret said.

Deupree and Barret worked with Professors Joseph
Goldsten, Michael Anderson and Andrew Holliday and
members of the administration to establish the organiza-
tion. “We took the idea to reality at the beginning of this
year,” Deupree said. They held an application process
and brought in 21 students to the group. Other students
serve as informal associate members.

The students are business administration, accounting,
philosophy, economics, politics, and European history
majors, and are divided into seven teams of three. “Each
team does research on a speciﬁc industry,” Deupree said.

Before WIS invests any money, the teams will present
and defend their research.

Deupree anticipates taking 12 to 18 months to build a
complete portfolio of 25 to 40 securities. “Most of our

research has been preliminary. Our main goal is to find -

fundamentally sound companies that are fairly valued in
the market,” he said. WIS is still in the preliminary re-
search stage, and needs to do a thorough evaluation be-
fore deciding in which companies to invest.

“I don’t think that we were the first at W&L to have
the idea for such an organization,” Barret said. “I’m just
glad that we had the opportunity to set it up.”

37 DAYS ’TIL CHRISTMAS

COME SEE OUR SELECTION OF on-‘r BOXES AND BASKETS
WEEKDAYS 7:30 — 5:30 - SATURDAY 8:00-5:00 - SUNDAY 9:00 - 400

WWW

(l;(’ .(”r)0.s'///39' (rill

9 W. WASHINGTON ST. - 464-6586

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

would be a fearsome place for everyone else.”

“Folks opposed to the change in policy argue that they
are not hurting anybody and that the character of the uni-
versity is such that individual freedom is desirable,” said
Hampden Smith, journalism department head.

But Sessions denounced the idea that smokers’ indi-
vidual liberties are at stake.

“If you’ll pardon the expression, I think that’s a
smokescreen,” he said.

Although not required in the draft proposals, it seems
likely that the two smoking lounges and the smoking study
in the Leybum Library will also be declared no-smoking
areas. Although these rooms are enclosed, staff and stu-
dents have complained that smoke drifts out. “It’s not
clear yet what will happen, but it is the staffs view that
maybe the time has come to declare this a no-smoking
building, Barbara Brown, head librarian, said.

An anonymous senior, who spends an average of 6
hours a day in the fourth ﬂoor smoking lounge, is op-
posed to the change.

“It’s not like the smoke spreads into the library,” she
said. “If you don’t have a place to smoke, you will be
forced to go outside and smoke in the freezing cold.”

Senior Steve Komonytsky, a non-smoker who works
in the library, has no problem with the smoking lounges.
“If smokers didn’t have a place to smoke, there would be
more people hanging around and smoking outside,” he
said. “Even though the lounges smell, there are plenty of

other places to go and study. I see no reason to get rid of
them.” - ‘

The senior believes that the absence of smoking
longues will be detrimental to students who need to smoke
while they study.

“It will not be conducive to smokers’ study habits,”
she said.

F ear of litigation by victims of diseases caused by sec-
ond hand smoke has contributed to the decisions of many
institutions to impose no-smoking policies. But Boetsch
denied that this is an issue‘ here. “We’re not looking at
this in legal terms,” he said. “It’s a question of the overall
welfare of the community.” _

“Imagine the disruption that would occur for those who
smoke if they are forced to go outdoors every time they
want to have a smoke,” said Hodges.

With winter approaching and no plans to create new
indoor smoking areas, smokers are likely to face consid-
erable inconvenience. And the prospect of faculty and stu-
dents huddling in doorways to smoke raises more poten-
tial problems, such as litter and security. Boetsch acknowl-
edged that these were issues that will have to be addressed.

“lt’s not uncommon that in trying to deal with one prob-
lem you cause another set of problems,” he said.

The deans and Fox hope to make recommendations to
President John Elrod by the end of temi. Elrod must en-
dorse any change in smoking policy. If he decides to imple-
ment the plan, campus smoking could be outlawed as soon
as the start of next term.

 

Date

Location

 

PICK UP APPLICATIONS FOR
FOR DORM COUNSELORS,
RESIDENT ASSISTANTS ‘

Applications are due Monday, Dec. 1 for
dorm counselor and resident assistant

posistions. They are available in Payne Hall I

4. If you have any questions about the appli-
cation/selection process, contact Dennis G.
Manning, Dean of the Freshman Program.

ATTEND MOCK CONVENTION
MEETING WED. NOV 19

A Mock Convention 2000 Information Ses- 3

sion will be held Wed. Nov. 19 at 6:30 p.m. in
the Commerce School, Room 221. For all
freshmen, sophomores and first year law stu-
dents, this is a unique opportunity to partici-
pate in one of W&L’s best events!

CHECK OUT IMPROVED,
NEW ONLINE CALENDAR

The W&L calendar is now on-line and can
be accessed on the W&L Homepage by click-
ing on the box, Jan.l, under the Calendar list-

ing. All events which have been placed on the 1»

calendar for this academic year should be vis-
ible on the Master Calendar as well as on the
School Events‘Calendar.

If you put something on the calendar, check

to make sure all information is correct. Also, ‘

ifa scheduled event is canceled, or if the date
is changed, contact Evan Atkins at X8955 or
by e-mail, eatkins@wlu.edu.

UVA PROFESSOR SPEAKS
ABOUT CHINESE CULTURE

“Privledged and Imperiled: Children of the
Han Court” is the title of the lecture that will
be given by Anne Behnke Kinney, associate
professor of Chinese at the University of Vir-
ginia, on Tues., Nov. 18, at 4:30 p.m. The lec-
ture, which is sponsored by the East Asian
Studies Program at W&L, is open to the public
and will take place in the duPont Auditorium

—Compiled by Kathryn Mayurnik 1*

0%

GR EAT ‘BR I'I'AI\I
AUSTRALIA
I B E I.AI\I D

N EIl|l ZEAI.AI\I D

o:-

ARGENTINA
CI-III.E
COSTA RICA

Fa/of «gar/ﬁg an /fa//%a/6, cﬁéa/a/océfar riled/dz!/e.

Study Abroad Information Sessions:
Representative: Steve Seaworth

Tuesday, November 18
5:00 PM

Tucker Hall 5 18

For further information contact the Institute for Study Abroad. Butler University.
4600 Sunset Avenue, Indianapolis, IN 46208, Tel: 800/858-0229 Fax 317/940-9704

INKHTUTEFORSTUDYABROAD
BUTLERIUNIVERSITY

l

 

 

NOVEMBER 17, 1997

  
   

BY ERICA PRossER

STAFF WRIIER

t’s the true story of seven strangers chosen to live together in a great

house in a hip city —— their every moment captured on video. It’s

MTV’s Real World, a chronicle of twentysomethings as they struggle to
get along, and next year a VMI cadet just may be in the mix.

Dave Burns and Nate Blackburn, VMI seniors, are in the ﬁnal stages of
interviews and considerations necessary to become members of either “The
Real World” or “Road Rules.” “The Real World” traces the interactions of the
participants and airs them on TV “Road Rules,” on the other hand, involves
adventurous people travelling around the world, following clues left for them.
Both shows have already run several seasons on MTV.

Burns described his initial casting call as “just kidding around.” He hap-
pened to be in Richmond while MTV was holding an open casting call in six
cities. Richmond was one of the cities, and Burns wandered into the Cobble-
stone Pub, the casting call location, for fun.

“Nate was more premeditated than I was,” Burns said “He wants to be anactor.”

The long interview process snagged both the cadets. The second round
was held at the Berkeley Hotel in Richmond. This interview was a ﬁlm shoot;
interviewees and interviewers relaxed and talked in front of the camera. Burns
said that the questions he was asked sought information about his past, his
personality, and his best and worst points.

5

Two senior cadets may ,0
star in the next season
of MTV’s hottest shows

 

PAGE 5

W&life

MTV held the next interview at VMI. Burns sat in front of a camera while
speaking to the interviewers on a speakerphone. He then had to send the
tape in to the studio. Burns said that this step in the process was elimination
before the semiﬁnals.

As you might have guessed, Burns and Blackburn were notiﬁed of semiﬁ-
nal status four days later. MTV ﬂew producers and a director to VMI to follow
the candidates around with a camera. The MTV people watched Burns and
Blackbum through parade, fomiations, dinner, and nearly everything in between for
a whole day. Then another interview ended the day.

Two days later, Burns received a call telling him to go to Washington,
D.C. for another round in the selection process. He drove his ’69 convertible
up and met the MTV crew at a coffee shop. They wanted to ﬁlm him driving
the car with the top down.

“It was like 55 degrees outside,” Burns laughed.

They all piled into the convertible, and with cameramen and a direc-
tor riding along and ﬁlming Burns drove around D.C. The group en-
countered a slight problem when Burns got lost.

He went to a gas station for directions, and the gas station worker
gave him the wrong directions. Burns ended up asking for directions in
residential Alexandria. The group ﬁnally made it back to the hotel,

though, and the crew had ﬁlmed Burns’s entire experience with getting
lost in D. C.

The ﬁlming at VlVl1 and in D.C. willbe used for the premiere of the show,
Burns said. He’s not deﬁnitely a member of the cast yet, but he says it “looks
good.” Some have told him that he is deﬁnitely “in” at this stage, but he’s
going to stay skeptical until he’s sure. The MTV staff will visit his home in
Boston over Thanksgiving to speak with his family.

IfMTV picks Burns, he will go to Seattle for ﬁve months, begin-
ning in January. The show would air next July.

Burns said that the producers look for a mixture of passive and
nfrontational people for the cast. 1 He plans to be more confronta-
tional than passive, addressing the issues that come up as he usu-

allywould.

Burns was very positive about the interviews and the MTV
people he has worked with. “I’ve bonded with these people amaz-
ingly,” he said. “Even if it doesn’t work out, I had a great time.”

ThisisBurns’slastsemesteratVMI. Hehasajob1inedup,andheadmit1edthat
the show would “shake that up.” But, he said, this is an experience.

“With an experience like this, you have to take it,” he said.

Burns has seen a few episodes of “The Real World,” but he has never
seen “Road Rules.” He thinks that Blackburn will probably be on “Road
Rules” if he is chosen. He and Blackburn are close friends, he said, almost
like brothers. Blackburn could not be reached for comment.

Burns looks forward to the rest of the process.

“It’s ano-lose situation,” he said “I amwhatl arri, and ifthey likethat, ﬁne.”
SEATTLE
will be
Burns is
new home
starting in
January if
MTV
chooses
him

for “The
Real
World. ”

 

A EULOGY FOR JACKOPIERCE

THE END IS NEAR for Jackopierce. HTTP.‘//WWW.JACKOP1ERCE.COM

Fin Itour

- -‘r. "‘6., - : "Q, N‘ -. -  ar 5‘ *
    as
I S ‘ ,   

no iwake

lBYKELI.EYTO'ITEN

    

STAFF WRIIER

saw Jackopeirce for the ﬁrst time as a freshman and now, unfortu-
nately, as a senior, I’ll see the band for the last time.

Jackopierce is breaking up, but for its ﬁnal hurrah it has booked an
extensive farewell tour, playing across the country almost every night.
Tomorrow, the tour hits Trax in Charlottesville a regular venue for the
band whenever it is in Virginia.

The band started with two friends — freshmen theater majors at
Southern Methodist University in Dallas, Texas. Jack O’Neill and Cary
Pierce combined their guitar and vocal skills, their love for music, and
their names to form Jackopierce. They started by playing in a local club
and soon had an avid college following.

In 1994, my brother Brent tried to introduce me to Jackopierce. Prac-
tically every time I spoke with him, he mentioned the band, urging me to
listen. I didn’t though, not yet anyway. I mean, this is the guy who tried
to convince me that Dave Matthews was going to be ultra-popular.
What did my brother know about music?

Then I started hearing little murmurs about the band. Friends at
home in Atlanta were starting to talk. I started to receive e-mails from

friends at other schools who had seen Jackopierce. My dorm counselor
(an all-knowing upperclassman) was playing their CDs.

Then in Spring 1995, W&L’s Mock Convention Kick-off brought
Jackopierce to Zollman’s. I called Brent; a visit was in order. And so
began the ﬁrst of many brother/sister memories with J ackopierce.

Over the next few years, I saw the band as often as possible — in
Roanoke, Charlotte and Atlanta. Their ﬁfth CD Finest Hour received
extended air play on the local alternative radio station. The popularity of
“Trials” and “Vineyard” sparked numerous promotional events around
Atlanta during the summer of 1996.

After that summer, I missed J ackopierce for awhile. I didn’t see them
the next fall, and I was studying in Europe winter and spring (unfortu-
nately, the band just doesn’t get any attention in the shadows of the
Spice Girls over there). I spent this summer in a twilight-zoned town in
Montana ——— I’m not even sure if they have ever heard of Elvis, let alone
this small college band from Texas. So, needless to say, I was way behind
in my Jackopierce stalking. .

One day this term, I returned from classes to ﬁnd a message from in
brother. He was quite polite and restrained, yetl could .hear his snickering
undertone: “Just calling to say hi. I’m going out tonight ...[and then the
stab to my heart]  to see J ackopierce.” I could feel the jealousy burning
inside, but then Brent worsened the blow, turning the dagger  oh yeah,
and this is their Farewell Tour.”

The next day, Brent called again. I suppose he felt guilty for his cruel
message, so the ﬁrst thing he I

 

said was, “Jackopierce 15 play- . M§§§§:‘=§§§:55¢:'
ing at Trax on Nov. 18, don’t
worry.” As Ibreathed a sigh of
relief, my brother told me about
the concert he had just seen.

The show, entitled “An
Evening with Jackopierce,”
begins with just Cary Pierce '
and Jack O’Neill playing an
acoustic set of old favorites.
It is rumored, if we’re a good
audience, that they’ll even
play “Please Come to Boston,”
a favorite of the fans, but a
song that Jackopierce vowed _ . . .., _
never to play again. After a I '0 .
short break, Jackopierce will
return (now with bassist Clay
and drummer Earl) for another complete set, plugged in and energized.

Brent raved about the show. He saw it in Athens, Ga. and immediately
bought tickets for the show in Atlanta. He couldn’t believe the stamina of
Jack and Cary, playing two complete sets. As the show progressed, Cary,
known for jumping about the stage, became more and more enthusiastic
and animated. The next day, my brother was still hyper talking about it.

Now, I can hardly wait for tomorrow night. In anticipation, I worked
throughout the weekend so I could attend the concert guilt-free without
worrying about the tests and papers the ﬁnal week before Thanksgiving ensues.

So maybe I love Jackopierce because, in a way, it has tracked my
college years. Or maybe I love the band because its one of the few things
my very different brother (he’s the middle child) and I have in common.
But, honestly, the band just plays good, fun music and you leave their
concerts bubbling over with energy and excitement.

If you want to catch Jackopierce for the last time, or even the ﬁrst,
tickets are available at Night Owl or at the door (if they are not sold out).
Doors open at 8 p.m. Call 804-295-8729 for more information.

4-
5

/ '/

JACKOPIERCE.

  

Blues band to play
Christmas Weekend

BY GINGER PHILLIPS

STAFF WRHER

It’s coming. In less than three weeks it will be “Christmas Weekend” —
notorious for being two of the most ﬁin-ﬁlled days each year at W&L. A huge part
of all that fun is always the great bands sponsored by the Student Activities
Board. This year the SAB is bringing the Gibb Droll Band to campus.

The Gibb Droll Band has earned a reputation as one of the best bands in the
Southeast. They have toured with such bands as Widespread Panic, B.B. King,
and W&L favorites the Dave Matthews Band and Agents of Good Roots.

The band’s overwhelming succg/s,s,.ar;j1 opularity keep them on the road in
' s for over 200 shows each year.
(1 delivers an eifective mixture
iige center of the maelstrom. In
' tches from Virginia to the

   
  
   
     
   
  
  
    
    

Rocky Mountains.”

Josh Harvey, sophorrigf j_oll Band. “I think with the

recent Blues explosion,  he said.
Harvey, an aspiring  River at a Charlottesville
concert at Trax this Gibb Droll,” said Harvey.
“They’re pretty renowned? 
The band was form ', /A , roll. Droll began playing
the guitar at age ten whenfa; ﬁrst guitar. His respect for
the great blues guitarists  his own unique style and
the passion for music whiclfé e. Droll says, “What we are
trying to do is put somethingégéi 'n’t normally hear, something

that will get the audience involv
you can dance to.” ///,/
The other members of the band are drummer Mike Williams, keyboardist Pete
Mathis, and bass player Bob Bowen. The four members together create an explo-
sive chemistry on stage that maintains the high energy of both the band and the
audience. The band ’s ﬁrst release, Dhaiina, sold over 10,000 copies in less than a
year, by word of mouth alone. Narrow Mouth Jar, the band’s second CD, was
released in October 1995 and has achieved a high level of praise for its originality
and diverse content. ~
The band will play at the W&L Pavilion on Friday, December 5.

ut with a furikier ‘90’s style that

         
      

-. ".-r 77,” -

BY L1H5'rYiE INIORMATION FOR EVERYONE

PUBLIC SERvi<E ANNOUNCEMENT

We all know about AIDS. We’ve heard
the lectures, seen the documentaries and
some of us even know people with AIDS or
HIV AIDS seems to have been around for
our entire lives. That’s closer to the truth
than many of us might have imagined. For
17 years, the world has recognized AIDS as
a serious epidemic and has attempted to ﬁnd
ways to combat it.

Although education about the virus has
increased, many things people still may not
know all the facts. The percentage of AID S-
related deaths in the United States dropped
by 19 percent in 1996; the number of people
living with fully developed cases of the disease increased to almost 215,000.

This number is up 10 percent from 1995 and does not include an estimate of
how many undiagnosed cases there are in the United States. Women are still 33
percent more likely to die than men from AIDS. By the year 2000, an estimated
80,000 children in the United States will lose their mothers to AIDS. This has
already happened to nine million children world-wide.

The majority of new AIDS cases are found amoung people aged 15-24.
In addition, African-Americans and Latinos are considered to be “high
risk” groups. AIDS is the leading killer of Americans aged 25-44. Roughly
20 percent of the reported AIDS cases among women (through mid-1996)
are Hispanic. In the same year, 23 percent of children’s AIDS cases occured
among Hispanic children.

December 1 is World AIDS Day. Celebrated since 1988, the purpose of
this day, according to the American Association for World Health, is to
create an “increased understanding of the magnitude of the HIV/AIDS epi-
demic and its global dimensions, with an emphasis on promoting action
and sound policies to prevent HIV transmission and to minimize the
epidemic’s impact on children, their families and their communities.”

LIFE is sponsoring activities throughout the day all over campus. Between
noon and 3 p.m., there will be free and conﬁdential HIV testing at the Student
Health Center. This has no affiliation with
the University, and there will be no record
made in your health ﬁle.

LIFE will sponsor other activites on
campus to raise awareness. At 2 p.m., the
bell at Lee Chapel will chime 17 times in
observance of the 17 years that AIDS has
been considred an epidemic. “And the
Band Played On,” a movie about the be-
ginning of the AIDS epidemic starring Lily
Tomlin, Alan Alda, Richard Gere and
Anjelica Huston, will be shown in Northen Auditorium at 1 p.m. and again
at 9 p.m. LIFE will provide refreshments for the 9 p.m. showing, and every-
one is invited to bring pillows and get comfortable.

For more ‘infomiation, look for the table in the library with associated infor-
mation, or check out http2//www.aawhworldhealth.org.

 

  

PAGE 4

Hoofbeats gives
children a leg-up

BY HILLARY OooMBs

MANAGING FDIIOR
Sometimes Mike Gorman looks out of his liv-
ing room window and catches a glimpse of his
daughter riding her bike through the neighborhood.
Many parents would take the sight for granted.
But Gorman never will.

His daughter had to overcome difficulties with
delayed ﬁne and gross motor skills in order to ride.
He credits Hoofbeats, a therapeutic riding center in
Natural Bridge, with making the 11-year-old’s trav-
els through the community possible.

“I attribute her success on horseback to being
able to teach her to ride abike,” said Gorman, direc-
tor of Washington and Lee’s Lenfest Center. “She
learned balance and not to fear.”

Hoofbeats is the creation of Carol Branscome,
a riding instructor from Blacksburg, and Trish
Rogers, once a Vir-

“People see the pictures of the very physi-
cally disabled taking part in their riding, but a lot
of people look at that and think it’s just a pony
ride,” Rogers said. “They don’t realize that tlrere’s
a true physical beneﬁt to posture and balance
and range of motion.”

For some Hoofbeats clients, riding provides
even more than exercise.

“It’s so good for self-conﬁdence and plan-
ning and task orientation — even spacial ori-
entation,” Rogers said. “A lot of handicapped
people don’t have any sense of personal orien-
tation. With most of our kids, the main goal is
to build their conﬁdence.” .

Branscome researches the disability of each
new client who comes to the center and constructs
a riding program to ﬁt his needs. I

“It’s safety ﬁrst, and she’s very responsible about

the whole thing,”

ginia Tech molecular Rogers said “She really

biologist. does her homework on
“It was one of a new client with new

those kind of kismet disability.”

things you hear of The riders have a

now and then,”
Rogers said. “Carol
was managing a
huge barn, and not
happy with where
she was. Iwas a mo-
lecular biologist at
Virginia Tech. I just
decided that I wanted
to have more direct
contact with people.”

The two were

 

A

HOOFBEATS is located in Natural Bridge. HTTP.’//
NS.ROCKBRIDGE.NET/OR G/I-IOOFBEA TS

lesson once every two
weeks, on average,
from March through
November. Lessons
last an hour, are usu-
ally private and cost
$10. Rogers says that
Hoofbeats is a bar-
gain, because the go-
ing rate in the county
for an hour-long
riding lesson is $20-

  

-/z

 

considering opening a therapeutic riding center when $30. She estimates that Hooﬂ)eats’s actual cost per
Rogers’ husband, Gary, a geotechnical engineer, was hour lesson is between $3 5 and $3 8.

oﬁered a professorship at Virginia Military Institute.
After studying the area, Rogers ,
and Branscome decided ‘ C “"""“
Rockbridge County would be the
perfect place to open their center.
Hoofbeats was incorpo-
rated as an nonproﬁt organiza-
tion in 1993. By the spring of

 

With most of our
kids, the main goal
is to build their

“Those who can’t afford to pay sign a fee
waiver,” Rogers said. “To date
we’ve been able to supply all fee
waivers people have requested.
No one has been denied access
on basis of paying.”

Because Hootbeats’s ‘costs are
so much higher than its revenues,

19 94, the two were training six C Onﬁden Ce- the center relies heavily on the more
donated or borrowed horses for than 40 volunteers on its rolls.
use in therapy. The center « Trish Rogers “We haven’t found a way in

opened its barn doors June 1,
1994, to 12 disabled and six able-
bodied riders.

In the past three years, the center’s client
list has grown to approximately 40 physically and
mentally disabled riders who range in age from
four to 60.

“At our center, we’ve attracted this huge
range of riders,” Rogers said. “We do have chil-
dren and adults with
physical disabilities, but
we also have children with
emotional disabilities,
speech disabilities and
learning disabilities.

Dr. Richard Bidlack’s
son, David, is another
Hoofbeats rider. The
seven-year-old has low
muscle tone.

“[David] has developed
a certain psychological bond
with the horses,” said Bidlack,
a W&L history professor.
“Riding develops his muscle
tone and his conﬁdence, and
he really enjoys it.”

Rogers explained the
beneﬁts of therapeutic riding
for the physically disabled.

A 1.

 

 

A VOLUNTEER iritroduc

of the Hoofbeats is ponies, to a new friend.
HTTP.‘//NS.ROCIQ3R1DGE.NET/ORG/HOOFBEA TS

our area to raise enough money to
7 9 pay salaries to everybody,” Rogers

said. “Carol, we pay kind of a mini-
mal salary, and she does do a few lessons to non-
disabled people on the side.”

Hoofbeats is also trying to branch out into
working with local schools. The center has estab-
lished Project ASTRIDE (A Study of Therapeutic
Riding’s Impact on Developmental Education), a
two-year study of the ben-
eﬁts of therapeutic riding,
with Natural Bridge Elemen-
tary School. The school
buses 10 first and second
grade learning and emotion-
ally disabled students to
Hoofbeats once a week,
where they do an academic
riding lesson. Branscome
and the students’ teacher

son on math, spelling and
grammar that the children
can do while on horseback.

Gorman explained the
impact of Hoofbeats and its
founders have had on his
and other families.

“It’s like angels ﬂew into
town,” he said.

  

 

kg. .

es Granny, one

 

NOVEMBER 17, 1997

W&life .

work together to plan a les- .

 

       
 

 
 
 
 
   
 

-W
I
a '
NATE
TAYLOR sings
Hopper Genie s .1.
original lyrics.
’C4<»4o4¢o4.o€«’,n~1K4~14;o4~ZMc/~€1;1KoA4«4«wow '
But I (,A»rv4¢61ZA147o4~'/1b4¢/no4s$/
/3yM£¢o4/41/40  — So 
‘l/6eKé/1/«XI/,k€t{~4«§o,14~5«o4v
R:»w1«£MZo4;ow»e(ne«n~4ZM~eo1« '-
/c4444&4/o4~4é4v7/L'4/l/1ZﬁT«4t/ﬂy
So 4me4/o4~/wloilowo/»U.
Wdtzalzozgloolowwmwi R
'CM-4&a;o4~’4x&go214o wwcﬁlcﬁ‘/Io [Mam
Tlow’/mm {~€aa/leﬂzo go ,
Yo4~'»t/&§o1«4~o44//owltf/I10 14-Mv

  
 

HOPPER GENIE
got its start playing
in fraternity
basements.

 
   
 
   
 

sole member of the trio that met the require-

DOUG PEPDLE merit. Being honorable gentlemen, the students "
‘7CC0’”P“’f’eS- Taylor chose to tell the truth about their ages. They
0” the gum” were denied the opportunity to perform.
“For one day, we were all happy  it was
BY JON B gm}, WRITER our greatest success but also our biggest dis- 9

   

appointment,” said Taylor.

Hopper Genie has had to content them-
selves with Lexington venues. Their perfor-
mances on November 8 at the Sigma Nu house
and November 9 at Lambdapalooza met with "-
mixed results.

The party-goers enjoyed the music, al-
though attendance was not as good as it might
have been. As for future shows, look for Hop-
per Genie next month at Champs. No date is set
as of yet, as the band calls scheduling for its
concert dates “sporadic.”

The band puts on a tight show. They do play
cover songs, but their originals are deﬁnitely q
worth a listen. Peddle says their unique sound
comes from the band’s variety of inﬂuences. While
self-taught guitarist Taylor ’s inﬂuences are mostly
in punk, Peddle is more inﬂuenced by Pearl Jam
and Metallica, while Panzer ﬁnds inspiration in "
the classic rock of Jimi Hendrix and Cream.

This seems to be what keeps Hopper Genie
from being just another punk band. While their
songs ﬁt within the punk genre, the band’s other
inﬂuences add something unique to the music.

The band is unsure about what its status will
be after graduation in June, but hopes that it will
still be able to play together. They would love to
make a living doing what they do, but admit that V
making it big is very diﬁicult. For now, they are
just enjoying making music.

Although, admittedly, this band is not the
best to dance to or sing along with, it is a good
change from the music that normally dominates

Lexington’s party scene. It is a chance
to hear loud and fun songs like their
catchy hit “Beer Goggles,” and, in gen-
eral, just have a good time. Although it
might be difficult to get a mosh pit go-
ing, ifyou enjoy punk rock, you’ll enjoy
Hopper Genie.
“We’re loud and fast,” said Taylor.

ith a music scene dominated by DJ parties

and Grateful Dead cover bands, you

would not expect to see a band like Hop-
per Genie emerge as one of W&L’s most promising mu-
sical acts. Brandishing a heavy yet melodic punk sound,
similar to MxPx or Lagwagon (Green Day for those of
you who know nothing about punk), Hopper Genie is a
refreshing change for those who enjoy rocking out and
getting rowdy on Friday nights.

Made up of guitarist and songwriter Nate Tay-
lor, senior, bassist Doug Peddle, junior, and drum-
mer Doug Panzer, senior, Hopper Genie formed in
January 1996. Last year, they recorded some ma-
terial using Taylor’s own four track recorder and
the recording studio in DuPont. The product of
these efforts is a tape entitled “In My Pants” on
sale at Night Owl.

This summer, Hopper Genie had a chance at
fame and fortune when it was selected to appear at
the House of Blue in New Orleans. The band sent
a tape to an unsigned bands contest sponsored
by the House of Blues. The judges liked its sound
and chose Hopper Genie as one of the top ﬁve
bands in the New Orleans area.

When the band members got the news in July that
they had been picked, their elation was short-lived.

“We were supposed to go back to play at the
House of Blues in New Orleans,” said Taylor, “but
not all of us were 21, so we couldn’t do it.”

Jim Beam Whiskey, one of the contest’s spon-
sors, required bandmembers to sign a form to prove
that they were aged 21 or higher. Taylor was the

 
 
 
 

As for the origin of the name, the band
calls it a “secret.” But it’s no secret that as
long as Hopper Genie is around, punk rock
music lives on in Lexington.

— W&L1fe Associate Editor Liz Detter con-
ributed to this article.

(-

DOUG PANZER carries the punk beat. A

 

   

“You can kind of jump around to it.” I

 

  

NOVEMBER 17, 1997

RESULTS

Football (4-6)
Sat.:” Swarthmore 13
' W&L 41

Men’s X-Country
2nd place at NCAA South
Regional Meet

Women’s X-Country
7th place at NCAA South
Regional Meet

Men’s Swimming (1-2)

Sat.: W&L 75
Sewanee 118

Women’s Swimming

(1-2)

Sat: W&L 81

Centre 124

AHEAD

Men’s Basketball
Fri.: at Swarthmore
Sat.: at Haverford

Women’s Basketball
Fri.& at Camagie Mellon
Sat.: Tournament

Women’s Swimming
Sat.: at Hollins
Invitational Meet

PAGE 5

Sports

enerals end season with victory

Sophomore quaterback Christian Batcheller leads squad to a 41-13 win over
the Swarthmore Garnets, breaking two offensive records in the process

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON
mm‘? STAFF \X/Rnm

The Generals closed out their
season in grand style Saturday on a
cold and grey afternoon as they de-
stroyed Swarthmore College 41-13.
Sophomore quarterback Christian
Batchellor threw for 296 yards and
four touchdowns and, broke two
school records, all while nursing an
ankle injury he suffered in the ﬁrst
quarter. On two consecutive plays
in the second quarter Batchellor
broke two separate single season
records as he set a new mark for
both touchdown passes and yard-
age.

Batchellor finished the season
with 1,998 passing yards and 15
touchdowns, breaking the old
records of 1,876 yards and 12
touchdowns set by Phillip Sampson.

The Generals ﬁnish the season at
4-6, winning four of their last six
games after starting the season with
four consecutive losses. The loss
completed the second consecutive
winless season for Swarthmore,
who ﬁnished the year at 0-10.

Batchellor had his way with the
Swarthmore defense all day long,
sitting back in the shotgun and us-
ing the strong accurate arm that has
brought him so much success. Had
Batchellor played the whole game

he most likely would have thrown
over 500 yards. J.T Malatesta also
ﬁnished a great season with a qual-
ity performance, catching six passes
for 130 yards and two touchdowns.

Senior captain Nick Hodge,
plagued by injuries all year, caught
his first and only touchdown ofthe
year, a 27 yard touchdown pass
from Christian Batchellor.

Swarthmore did hang around
early, scoring a touchdown early in
the second quarter after Joe Aleffi
took a screen pass from Ford
O’Connell in for the touchdown to
make the score 10-7 for the Gener-
als. But that was as close as they
got as the Generals offense took
advantage of four interceptions to
put the game out of reach by half-
time.

The victory marked the final
game for the Generals seniors, many
of whom played key roles on the
Generals defense, such as Matt
Luka, Ryan Fleetemeyer, Omar
Moneim, Jack Boyd, Scott Dynan,
and John Bennazi. The Generals
will also say farewell to tailback
Seth McKinley, wideout Nick
Hodge, and kicker Matt Holbrook.
Holbrook had a steller year, taking
care of all the kicking and punting
for the Generals. All ofthe seniors
will be sorely missed next season.

ON THE ATTACK, freshman Hanley Sayers carries the ball towards the endzone during one of his I 0 carries for 45
yards. Oﬂensively, the Generals were onﬁre, accumlating 450 yards on 71 plays. 308 of those yards were from passing
by sophomore quaterback Christian Batcheller. HOLLISTER HOVEY/PHOTO EDITOR

Cross country winds
up a strong season

 

FALL ATHLETICS ROUNDUP

Old Dominion

 

Volleyball

FIRST TEAM
Hilary Martin
Nancy Reinhart

SECOND TEAM
Alison Beard

PLAYER OF THE YEAR
Nancy Reinhart

COACH OF THE YEAR
Terri Dadio

Women’s Soccer

FIRST TEAM
Nicole Johnson
Claire Bowers
Lorraine Taurassi
Karin Treese

SECOND TEAM
Erica Reineke

Athletic Conference
Honor Recipients

Men’s X-Country

FIRST TEAM _

Jason Callen

Will Olson
Greg Ruthig
Alex Taylor

SECOND TEAM
Darrick Alford
Taylor Schlutz

RUNNER OF THE YEAR
Jason Callen V

COACH OF THE YEAR
John Tucker

Men’s Soccer

FIRST TEAM
Mikel Parker
Jamie Parker

HONORABLE MENTION

Sam Chase
E. J. Murphy

BY FRANK RIZZO

 

Al-‘F WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s
cross country team ﬁnished 17 points
behind Frostburg State to claim sec-
ond place on Saturday at the NCAA
Southern Regionals at Sewanee.
ODAC Runner of the Year senior cap-
tain Jason Callen qualiﬁed for the
NCAA Division III championships
next weekend, coming in ﬁfth place
with a time of 26:57. The top W&L
runners this weekend were All-ODAC
First Team members senior Will
Olson, with an 8th place ﬁnish (27: 13),
and Greg Ruthig, who ﬁnished 26th
(27:52). Other impressive perfor-
mances came from All-ODAC Second
Team members senior captain Taylor
Shultz, who cruised in at 19th positon
(27:37), and Alford who earned 29th
with a time of 27:55. Except for Callen,
who will be competing in the NCAA
Division Ills next weekend, the sea-
son is over for the rest of the squad.
Olson summed up his career and this
last meet: “We were disappointed. We
ran as well as we could. We worked

hard all season an, unfortunately, had
a bad day when it counted. As a se-
nior, it was a bookend to my career to
ﬁnish with the ﬁrst four senior run-
ners on our team. The four of us did
the same thing freshman year.”

The women’s cross country team
also had a strong race this weekend at
the Southern Regionals. Leading them
to their 7th place ﬁnish was junior
Natasha Dorofeeva, ﬁnishing in 20th
place with a time of 20:07. Other top
ﬁnishers were senior captain Carson
Flowers in 24th place (20:18), Lisa
Brenan in 50th (21:11), and Ashley
Smith in 56th (21:30). According to
Flowers, “It was a really good season.
The freshmen did really well and
helped us out a lot towards the end of
the season. Everyone improved. We
ended the season on a high note with
a strong showing at Regionals.”

Both cross country squads were
supported by the strength of their
underclass runners. Though it was the
ﬁnal season for the senior leaders of
the two teams, the core of younger
talent ensures these teams will have
successful seasons in the future.

Do you play an intramural sport?
Would you like to publicize your success?

Give your pictures
and results to the
Ring-tum Phi!

Then everyone will know.
And you’ll be proud.

 

 
   

O

PAGE -6

ion
rial

Nov. 17, 1997

Relax, they are
only your grades

The ﬁnal few weeks of Fall Term 1997 are here.

Everyone on campus is freaking out, trying to
ﬁgure out what percentage of their grade has been
determined in each class, hoping that their is a
glimmer of hope for a higher grade.

So when you are stressing out this week, re-
member a few things. These are your grades, it
is really not worth risking your health over. There
are much more important things to worry about
—— seniors, have you found a job yet?

There are plenty of things to do to de-stress
this week. If you need a study break, there are
plenty of good shows to watch that aren’t broad-
cast on Thursday night on NBC. Spin City,
Michael J. Fox’s television comeback is on ABC
Wednesday at 8 p.m. Party of Five is on FOX
Wednesday at 9 p.m. Frasier is on NBC at 9
p.m. Tuesday. Miami Vice, the X-Files and the
A-Team are all on FX every night.

Remember all of those other shows you never
missed in high school? Many of them are still
on, just ﬁnd someone with a television, tell them
to go to the library to study, grab a coke and re-
lax for a little while.

For sports junkies, ESPN has the Florida Pan-
thers and the New York Rangers Tuesday night
at 7:30 p.m. Don’t forget the 2 a.m. SportsCenter
every night.

For those of you who aren’t “TV” people, there
are a host of lectures this week. Patrick Buchanan
is the biggest of these, but there are several oth-
ers. The W&L calendar lists them all. Go over to
the Lenfest Center Wednesday night and listen
to some of your talented classmates at the Ap-
plied Music recital at 8 p.m.

There is always packing for your trip home next
week. Packing is a great way to eat away hours.

Seniors, have you ﬁnished that work on your
resume that you’ve been meaning to do?

Don’t worry, like exam week, you’ll get by.
Find a senior and ask them about their ten favor-
ite ways to procrastinate and de-stress. Four years
at this school teaches you to be a pro at that, if
nothing else.

“ iuoite of the week:

Remove Parrott from
building.
—— Helth Department inspection report

77

@112 liking-tum lﬁht

Executive Editors Courtney Miller
Jason Zacher
Managing Editor Hillary Coombs

Associate Editor Andrea Ewing

News Editor
w&life Editors

Kathryn Mayurnik
Liz Detter
Tarah Grant

Opinion & Editorial Editor Frances Groberg

Sports Editor John Stewart
Copy Editor Will Hardie

Photo Editor Hollister Hovey

Online Editor Tom Wadlow

Business Manager
Circulation Manager
Advertising Editor

Asst. Advertising Editor

Rebecca Cuny

Matthew Craig
Douglas Brown
Steven Klotz

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-
tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and
subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor and
Business Manager, but the Ring-tum Phi is otherwise
independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Saturday to appear in that week's edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit sybmissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “My Views” do not
reflect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of the Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

Fax: (540) 462-4059

E-mail: phi@wIu.edu

Upperclassmen hangups with housing

Washington and Lee University should not require
sophomores to live on campus.

W&L cannot offer enough housing for both the
sophomore class and juniors and seniors who want to
live on campus. Requiring sophomores to live on cam-
pus against their will means that upperclassmen who
want to live in W&L liousing must suffer through the
uncertainty of the lottery system. Worse, the require-
ment forces some upperclassmen to face the possibil-
ity of living in an apartment or house that they
cannot afford.

gr-" Brick Row
‘<‘-if:-oavid Balsley 99

W&L does not guarantee housing to juniors and se-
niors. W&L cannot determine how many students will
be living in Gaines or the Woods Creek Apartments
until after Winter Rush. At that point, sophomore
women and men who have not joined a fraternity are
allotted rooms. The remaining rooms are divided up
among rising juniors and seniors, who receive top pri-
ority for the Woods Creek Apartments.

If more rising juniors and seniors want on-campus
apartments than are available, some will be left out in

Alternatives  
to Tuesday’s
party scene

Tired of the monotonous W&L social scene? Don’t
feel like wasting away another night in an alcoholic
stupor? Well don’t worry, because now the Tuesdays!
Committee is here to provide fun and exciting alterna-
tives to’ the smothering Tuesday night party scene. Hey,
check out these fresh upcoming Tuesdays! events:

 

- Nov. 18 — Stuttering poetry reading. Hear some
of today’s leading stuttering poets read their most fa-
mous works. Donald Kelly reads his epic “The-the L-
1-l-l-1-1-leaves in th-the- T-t—t-t-t-trees in A-a-April,”
Kelly McDonald reads her,“L-l—l-love on A S-s-s-s-
Sunday,” and much, much, much, much, much more.
- Dec. 2 — The Controlled Eating Experiment. Find
out how long it really takes for those extra calories to
show up. Free cheesecake is provided, and members
of the Rockbridge County Weight Watchers will be
standing by with scales. Put on the entire “Freshman
15” in half an hour!
- Dec. 9 — Brain Damaged. Rockbridge County’s
only all-banjo Pink Floyd tribute band. See the show
that the Floyd’s Roger Waters dubbed “insulting, em-
barrassing, and terriﬁcally off-key.”
- Dec. 16 — Mark Markowicz. A one man entertain-
ment extravbaganza. He sings. He dances. He plays
17 instruments at once. He tells jokes. He juggles. He
repairs airplane engines. He cooks a seven course meal.
He chews his own arm off and surgically reattaches it.
Rolling Stone calls him “the most entertaining college
act we’ve seen in minutes.”
° Jan. 6 — Shakespearean mime theater. See some
of today’s hottest street mimes act out classic scenes
from Shakespeare’s plays. “Very quiet” —— the News
Gazette. “I don’t remember Hamlet being trapped in
an invisible box” — the News Dispatch. “Terriﬁcally
off-key” — Roger Waters. “Speak up!” — the Dis-
patch Gazette.
- Jan. 13 -— Nick Gatto, the oboe experience. New
Jersey’s fourth best oboe player brings his exciting one
man electric oboe show to W&L. “Much louder than
those f***ing mimes” — the Times Gazette Dispatch.
“There wasn’t a dry eye in the house, mainly becuase
everyone walked out” — the Courier Post Ledger. “The
J imi Hendrix of the oboe, except that J irni had talent” —
the Daily Herald Gazette.
- Jan 20 —— Paint! The only act that splatters paint on the
wall and lets you watch it dry! Great fun for C-school
majors and other dull people. “Still better than the mimes”
— The Daily Ledger Post Dispatch Post. “Heh-heh, look
at it dry!” — the Ledger Ledger Gazette Times Ledger.
“Dry, but still magniﬁcently off-key” — Roger Waters.
Yes, the Tuesdays! Committee. Because who ever
said fun has to be any fun?
Disclaimer: If you stutter, play the oboe and/or banjo,
are a mime, C-school major and/or Roger Waters, please
address your complaint letter and/or subpoena to:

The Opinion Page Editor
The Trident
W&L University Center

 

the cold. Consequently, rising juniors and seniors cannot
count on campus housing.

This system is ﬂawed.

First, it is insulting to take the ability to make deci-
sions away from rising sophomores, who are supposed to
be mature and responsible enough to care for themselves.

Second, requiring sophomores who would rather live
somewhere else to move into campus housing forces some
juniors and seniors off campus. Both groups would be
much happier if sophomores were allowed to move off
campus so that rising juniors and seniors could move
on campus.

Third, the lottery system forces rising juniors and se-
niors who want to live on campus to wait until the spring
to ﬁnd out if there will be room for them. At this point, if
they did not get a campus apartment, they will have a
hard time ﬁnding somewhere else to live since leases for
many houses and apartments are signed in the fall. Due
to Winter Rush, however, the lottery cannot be held ear-
lier in the year. Under the current system, rising juniors
and seniors face months of uncertainty. .

Last, and most importantly, requiring sophomores to
live on campus means the possibility exists that some jun-
iors and seniors may have to live in off campus apart-
ments and houses they cannot afford.'Students who need
to live on campus because W&L housing would be cheaper

 
 

than the apartments or houses they could ﬁnd elsewhere
are not guaranteed housing. They must deal with the pos-
sibility of having to ﬁnd a house or apartment they cannot
afford.

Not requiring sophomores to live on campus could help
to relieve these problems. Allowing rising sophomores to
do what they want would mean that campus housing could
be guaranteed to more rising juniors and seniors. At the
very least, rising juniors and seniors could be told earlier
in the year how many rising sophomores are moving off
campus and how many rooms would be available.

Whether or not requiring sophomores to live on cam-
pus promotes sophomore class unity could be debated.
Whether class unity is more important than providing hous-
ing to students who cannot afford to live elsewhere is
equally questionable.

The Board of Trustees’ decision to build sorority houses
raises a ﬁnal possibility. W&L could allow sophomores

to live off campus until the sorority houses were built. At -

that point, there would probably be enough campus hous-
ing both for the sophomore class and for juniors and se-
niors who want or need to live here. W&L could then
decide whether it wants or needs to reinstate the require-
ment that sophomores live on campus.

Until then, sophomores should not be required to live
on campus.

Dilbutt

by Sam Adams

ooa-teem-—r, Cll-ccI< rumour.’ I are r my am.
1” ,4 cu.” doom. Sale‘: /4 Alva “core 45

4 89-;-,-ow-3 lag wit: I 1 LITTLE c¢~t=us£0
no MMNTS To um/E Lsser4~ cv3stLs€:<

1, (KP!-’.-¢l0'IE;v7_t rats /5 so not»!

    
   
 

tow IOOULD :atewANT
1'» rmvg 4.55::/t/V ,
(Y<?EK.£&¥ “l1’IIY"°-

l
l

wo~l>E& wukr or-2 coups cute?

   

/"1

I \ Avrrogg

vuEu—, ‘I To-D o+r—tL THAT I use A /6
YEAR 090 atm, co1vFvJ‘E0 /PGWT my
sexoat. toeurt-‘r~/, ‘roof

\

‘nus IS 50 coon‘,

 

Making W&L a state school

Why did you come to W&L? I came here because it
wasn’t a big nameless, faceless state school; because W&L
was different. Now a dubious plan has begun to make
W&L more like one of those cookie-cutter schools.

Few people, normally just seniors, are actually happy
with our current class registration process. Lines, people
camping out, and classes ﬁlling up early are all among
the complaints I have heard with the current system.

My View -
. Douglas Brown ’98

Plans are now in the works to move to an online regis-
tration process, in which you would use a computer to
pick your classes. No more lines. No more people camp-
ing out for classes. No more talking to professors. Just
you shut up in a dark room with your computer picking
your classes. Or if you don’t own a networked computer,
you’ll be waiting in line at the computer labs the day of
registration. Half the student body lives off-campus; will
they be expected to dial-in to the school’s facilities, which
are sketchy at best, pay RGV for the time to register, or
use the computer labs?

What’s wrong with this picture? Isn’t faculty-student

 

 

interaction one of things we treasure most? Isn’t the dis-
cretion that the faculty is able to exercise over the speciﬁc
students in their classes part of the academic freedom they
have as professors?

There are problems with the current system —‘ namely
not enough faculty involvement. Whenever possible, I
want the professor to sign me up for the class. If I don’t
like the professor well enough to ask about getting into
their class, then I am not going to take their class. The
lines and people camping out come into the picture when
the department secretaries handle the registration, but the
current process still isn’t that bad.

What is so wrong with camping out to get a class? If
getting into the right class is not important enough for
you to wake up a little early, then maybe that class isn’t
important enough for you to take. People like to com-
plain, but I have actually had some enjoyable times camp-
ing out for classes since I have been here. Leam to enjoy
it; it is part of this school Having the right attitude going
into it makes all the difference.

Statements have been made that camping out and still
not getting into the class you need isn’t “fair.” This new
system is supposed to make registration “fair.” Got some

{D See REGISTRATION page 7

What do you think about Buchanan coming to W&L?

‘‘It should be interesting to hear
such a closed-minded person
speak.”

—~ Mike Critenden ’0l

“Pat Buchanan is a sexist, ho-
mophobic, anti-semetic, xenopho-
bic Christian extremist.”

 

 

— Ashley Marano ’0O ion”,

-— Adam Henry ’00

“I think that it’s great that some-
one so controversial will happen
here. It’ll force people to appreci-
ate the right to express their opin-

“While he’s not everybody’s fa-
vorite person, and not everyone
shares his viewpoints, he has a
needed insight into issues that need
examining.”

—— Kevin Funk ’00

 

5

1.

    

1 NOVEMBER 17, 1997

How to succeed in invest-

BY SARA MELDRUM
-4- STAFF WRITER

Seniors Phil Barret and Reed
Deupree received $1 million last Sat-
urday. The Board of Trustees ap-
proved their proposal for the Williams
Investment Society, a student invest-
ment group, and dished out $1 mil-
lion from the school’s endowment.

The WIS will serve as a money
manager to the school. ‘If the group’s
investments make any money in the
long term, the Board will decide how
to use it. However, the primary aim
of the group is to educate students and
give them an opportunity to learn
about investing.

The recent stock market crash and
the subsequent cheap prices were a
dream come true for some investors,
but the’WIC was unable grab the op-
portunity.

“We would have liked to have had
cash on hand on the 27th,” said group

BY ANDREA EWING
——————e——- ASSOCIATE EDITOR

Expressions of concern, confu-
sion and support dominated the at-
mosphere of the Lexington Planning
Commission meeting Thursday
night.

The Project Horizon Safe House
for battered women was the topic of
discussion as Project Horizon’s
Board of Directors sought a condi-
tional use permit. If the proposal is
approved, the house will be built at
16 Fuller Street.

Kitty Sachs, director of the
Project Horizon Board, said the lot
is “ideal.” Its location is within
walking distance of elementary
schools, the grocery store» and the
Project Horizon Office. The house
will also be only a half-block from
the Police Station.

Safe House Project Director
Brian Richardson addressed the
Commission with the particulars of

founder Barret. “Corrections not trig-
gered by changes in long-terrn eco-
nomic fundamentals can create great
buying opportunities - essentially,

ing a million without trying

corporations go on sale.”
The W1C will invest only in the

 SEE CASH PAGE 2

    

MONEY MAN The Board of Trustees gave the Williams Investment

Society $1 milion to invest. H0LL1s7‘1;RH0V15I//PH070 EDITOR

Battered women’s shelter 1
given preliminarynod

the house. It will be a little under
3,000 square feet, and house two or
three families at once. The plans
call for it to look very similar to
other one family houses on the
street. .

“It will fulfill a critical commu-
nity need,” Richardson said, “We
will provide a safe environment,
and we will be good neighbors.”

After the presentation of the
plans for the house, the Commission
called for comments from the sev-
eral people gathered in the first floor
courtroom. I

Many residents of the Diamond
Hill community do not want the
house to be built in their neighbor-
hood.

‘‘I am totally against it being in
my front door,” one resident said,
“We don’t need it there.”

Pastor of the Lexington First
Baptist Church Lavert Taylor says
the Commission needs to recognize

the resident’s concern and reassure
them of their safety.

Residents of Fuller and Massey
Streets expressed their anxiety.
Many cited the history of violence
in the community. When asked what
the residents’ main concern was
Doris Porterfield answered that lo-
cation was the issue.

Sachs then asked, “Doris, is your
point that other undesirable things
have been built in your neighbor-
hood?”

Sachs then said that one member
of Project Horizon will be in the
Safe House 24 hours a day.

Of the two conditional use per-
mits for group homes that are now
in existence, both are on the other
side of Main Street.

The Planning Commission will
vote on the conditional use permit in
two weeks, and if it is approved by
the City Council, construction will
begin the first weekend of April.

    

 

45°
22°

High:
Low:

Wednesday

~« Ami-v—'x~ »rv**'*2‘!

High: 44°
Low: 28°

This Week’s Weather:

Tuesday

Thursday

    

High: 43°
Low: 26°

Courtesy of the National Weather Service

 

High: 53°
Low: 28°

Saturday

    

High: 58°
Low: 33°

I1€WS

 

Attention C-School majors...

CJ112 iliing-tum {ﬂirt

is looking for a business manager to
take over at the beginning of Winter
Term.

Gain some practical experience run-
ning the financial side of a newspaper.
Gain some valuable resumematerial.

If you are interested, please call the
Phi offices at 462-4060 or send e—mail
to phi@wlu.edu.

 

Wanted lll! individuals, Student
Organizations and Small Groups to Promote
Spring Break Travel Packages
Earn Substantial MONEY and FREE TRIPS
Call INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS ‘TFIIWIT

Z3‘

. . . . . . .._

Ms. Miller,
Mr. Zacher,
Mr. Hardie, ,
Ms. Mayurnik,
Ms. Detter, and
Ms. Hovey
invite you to be
a part of the
Sunday 5 a.m.
crew in the Phi
ofﬁce.

. Over 75 accredited courses
C French Immersion Program
C Fine Arts Program

C Advanced Photography and
Web Design Programs

C Cultural Excursions

198 ’%i‘

For more inﬁzrmatian, tall or write:

The American University of Paris
Summer Programs, Box S-2000
102 rue St. Dominique

75007 Paris, France

Tel. (33/1) 40 62 06 14

Fax (33/1) 40 62 0717

New York office: Tel. (212) 983-1414

THERE ARE A FEW SPECIAL THINGs THAT WE CAN

REALLY COUNT ON TO HELP Us ACCOMPLISH ALL THAT .-
WENEED TO DO. RELIABLE, DEPENDABLETHINGS LIKE
.THE TOYOTA GOROLLA. OVER THEI>AsT 30 YEARS,
OROLLA HAS BECOME ONE OF THE MOST TRUSTED
ARS IN THE WORLD. AND Now IT'S ALL-NEw...wITH
MORE PASSENGER AND TRUNK ROOM, AN ALL-NEW
LUMINUM ENGINE THAT'S ONLY MORE POWERFUL,
IT'S MORE ECONOM1CAL...UP TO as MILEs PER
GALLON HIGHWAY. GOROLLA IS SAFER AND
QUIETER, AND BEST OF ALL, IT sTARTs

Web site - http://www.aup.fr
E-mail - Summer@aup.fr

 

 A\./' \ /'

SYRACUSE
SUMMER ABROAD

AT A PRICE LOWER THAN LAST
YEAR. MORE CAR...LESS
MONEY. WHAT A

A R E F R E S H l N G

CHAN” Asia - Africa - Europe

South America 0 Australia

Internships - Academic Programs 0 Traveling Seminars

For information contact: Syracuse University
Division of International Programs Abroad
1-800-251-9674 0 DlPAsum@suadmin.syr.edu

ToYoTA or/orqolaq

 

PAGE 8

a an of liilumor, Opiuiou,

last Wgfd

 

NOVEMBER 17, 1997

Empty hellos, brief meaningless eye contact, fake smiles and a nanosecond of recognition:

Hey, Whazzup with the Speaking Traditon?

By Iora Ellison

P121’ Staff Writer

It’s 4:00 on Wednesday afternoon and you just bombed
the biology test that you’ve been sweating over for the
past 28 hours.

You got two and a half hours of sleep last night, you
haven’t showered in what feels like weeks, your face is
broken out and you’re PMSing. You have a history paper
due tomorrow that you haven’t started yet, you’re dying
for a cigarette and have no money on your card. Actually,
you lost your card, so you can’t get food either. You’ve
decided that you hate this school, socially and academi-
cally, and really all you want to do is lie down on the side-
walk right there and sleep/cry.

As you shuffle forward in your zombie-lil<e state, beau-
tiful Mary (ﬁll in appropriate 2nd name) strolls
by in her short black skirt, tight sweater, with perfect
makeup, and smooth hair that’s neatly curled under and
perhaps adorned with a bow. She smiles a glossy smile
and, though she barely knows you, greets you with a,
“Hey. Whazzup?” And you respond, despite all your ail-
ments, “Fine. How are you?” Sound familiar?

Someday I’m going to break loose and tell that random
person along the Colonnade sincerely what’s up. “Actu-
ally, Mary , I’m having a miserable week, and a

very confusing year. I don’t know where my life is head-
ing and I’ve considered that moving to Mexico and wash-
ing dishes in the back of a trashy restaurant might be a
nice alternative to this straight and narrow path towards
the American middle class. I’m tired of pretending and
being surrounded by pretenders. I thought that by com-

university I would

And if someone asks you how you are doing, answer
them truthfully.

Everyone knows that in order to matriculate at this
school that you have to be told about the wonderful
speaking tradition at least, I don’t know, two or three
thousand times. And I chose this school largely be-
cause I loved the idea ofliving in
a small community where every-

ing to an elite
(C

be surrounding
myself with intel-
lectual thought
and the pursuit of
life’s meanings.
Instead, I’ve
found myself in a
world where we

Perhaps as we nod our heads at one
another in recognition, we should think
about why it is that Lee set up the tradi-

tion in the first place.

one said hello and made you feel
as though you belonged. I guess
what is lacking is a sense of sin-
cerity behind it. I still get several
heys every time I go to class, but
they tend to be mere acknowledg-
ments of my existence, habitual
respect of the tradition, not an at-

all follow the pat-
tern. We wear ,
our pretty clothes, major in economics, take a passively
conservative standpoint, join fraternities and sororities,
get drunk on the weekends, and thoughtlessly smile and
say hello to each other as we pass. How are you?”

After that, I would probably have people fleeing in
all directions at the sight of me on the hill. But I say, if
you don’t care about how someone is doing, don’t ask.

Garden provides a fresh experience

 

Doug and Josh stopped at the
Palms for a few drinks while Robin
and Christine shopped downtown.
Then we all piled into Blue, Robin’s
Volvo, and headed down to road to
freedom, W&L-style: Roanoke. We
drove straight to the Olive Garden,
where the crowd was growing on a
busy Friday night. After a brief
twenty-minute wait in the bar, where
Josh and Doug tried Mai Thais and
Robin sipped a strawberry daiquiri,
we took our seats in a spacious
booth.

Our waitress quickly appeared
to take drink orders. Christine se-
lected sweet tea, while Josh or-
dered Coke. Doug ordered a glass
of the house white Zinfandel,

water. We also ordered

tion. Josh commented, “I like this
reviewing thing. You get to try new
things. I like that a lot. It rocks.”

As with the appetizer, the salad was
quickly served, and we cleaned out
the bowl with ease. Doug requested
fresh ground pepper for his salad,
which was belatedly produced by our
waitress. She left the pepper grinder
with our table, however, so Doug was
able to use it on his entree as well.
The salad was fresh and appetizing,
topped with a light dressing, croutons
and freshly grated cheese. At this
point Josh excused himself brieﬂy from
the table. Remember this.

Shortly thereafter the main dishes
arrived. Christine enjoyed her peren-
nial favorite, Lasagna Classico, which
met her usual standards. Josh had
ordered
the

Chicken Parmigiana. This time Josh
found it tasty and plentiful, with three
pieces of chicken and an excellent
sauce, but a previous visit to the Ol-
ive Garden left him disappointed with
this dish, he told us. Hearing his defa-
mation, the great Olive Garden fan
Christine responded, “Shut your
mouth, you heathen!” The engaged

said to be more health-conscious than
other entrees. This signiﬁed no re-
duction in size, however, as the entree
arrived in a dish larger than Robin’s
head, overﬂowing with bow-tie pasta
and stir-fried chicken and vegetables,
tossed in a light sauce. The chicken
was well—seasoned, and the veg-
etables were complimentary to the
pasta and chicken. Robin was pleased
with her meal but brought half of it
home in a“To Go” box.

Just as Christine, Robin and
Doug began to discuss dessert op-
tions, we heard clapping in the dis-
tance. Suddenly a large number of
waiters and waitresses descended
upon our table, clapping, singing,
and placing a small mint green
chocolate cake before Doug. Josh
could not suppress his pleased

look, having tipped the wait

staff off about Doug’s re-

cent birthday.

5 Rather than try-

ing the dessert

menu, which we all knew to contain

numerous excellent options, we ate

cake and laughed at a,very embar-

rassed Doug, who hates surprises.

Doug mentioned then that he ate at

one of the first Olive Gardens, an

experiment to test the restaurant’s

market appeal, which opened near

his home in Houston nearly ﬁfteen

years ago. Old Man Doug turned
twenty-three last Tuesday.

We boxed up the remaining»
cake and, gathering our com-

while Robin stuck with

an appetizer, hot arti-
choke-spinach dip, to
start the meal. The wait-
ress quickly supplied our
drinks and warm
breadsticks; the latter
disappeared, as did two
additional baskets during

The chicken was well—seasoned,

and the vegetables were

complimentary to the pasta and

chicken.

the meal.

The appetizer arrived shortly there-
after, with warm pieces of toasted
bread and celery sticks for dipping.
Even the men in the party enjoyed this
vegetable-laden dish, and after we
dipped all ofthe provided bread and
celery, we tried other items so as not
to waste the dip. Josh and Doug
even expressed a preference for
jalapeno peppers, found in the salad,
with the dip, although Christine and
Robin declined to try this concoc-

couple then launched into an argu-
ment on the merits of II Palazzo versus
those of the Olive Garden.

Feeling adventurous and raven-
ous, Doug dove into the Pasta
Abbondanza, which included grilled
chicken, fettuccini alfredo, and cannoli
ﬁlled with meat and cheese. He was
pleased with the wide variety and plen-
tiful portions in his dish. Robin opted
for one of the Garden Fare menu op-
tions, Chicken Giardino, which was

Colonnade Club

aw 17M aumwmé uroooniile etaeeou 6’ W§L

plimentary mints and as much
energy as we could muster,
moved slowly out of the res-
taurant with very full stom-
' achs. The Olive Garden is al-
ways an excellent option for a

hearty meal at a reasonable-

price, and for occasions when

you want to embarrass the
birthday boy, or girl, it’s a solid
choice. The escape from Lex Vegas is
also a desirable feature, as well as the
Olive Garden’s location adjacent to
Valley View Mall. The wait staff is
friendly and helpful, although some-
what harried on weekend evenings.
For a reliable and tasty meal, whether
in Roanoke, Erie, Chattanooga, Hous-
ton or anywhere the chain has
reached, the Olive Garden is
a sure bet.

9 ) tempt to make any sort of actual
human connection.

Perhaps as we walk along the Colonnade and casu-
ally nod our heads at one another in recognition, we
should think about why it is that Lee set up the tradi-
tion_in the first place. If we see each person that we
pass as someone full of deep thoughts, dreams, fears
and confusion, then maybe we can look them in the
eyes and give them a sincere smile and hello.

 

MONDAY ‘A’ 8 p.m. Netherlands Chamber Choir in

the Lenfest Center ‘A’ TU$DAY * 4 p.m. Allen

Mandelbaum Speech ‘A’ 7 p.m. Lawerence Rosen ‘A’
7:30 p.m. Pat Buchanan * eat Thanksgiving dinner at

the D-Hall ‘A’ WEDNESDAY ‘A’ 8 p.m. Applied

Music Recital in the Lenfest Center * AY

‘A’ study for that test you have Friday ‘A’ pack ‘A’ watch
T.V. if you have already accomplished the above sugges-

tions ‘A’ FRIDAY ‘A’ go home ‘A’

l

/

i/,//,_ .t’/,/_.../ /I/ ////"

l///ll .-’/ /l//:,, //[(.,r/’

‘Living in a m

By Andrea Ewing

P121’ Associate Editor

Have you ever wondered what you would do with a
million bucks?

Well, the Board of Trustees gave the Williams Invest-
ment Club one million dollars from the school’s endow-
ment to invest in the stock market.

This caused me to wonder what I would do if I had that
much’ money. I certainly would not invest it in the stock
market. Well, maybe a little, but I would deﬁnitely have to
blow a little of it before even actually considering responsi-
bility.

Let’s see, there
was that pony I
wanted for my
seventh birthday,
which my parents
never bought me
— no, I’m not bit-
ter. I could also
start looking at
the 1998 Jaguar.
But, what about
buying a nice little
weekend house in
St. Thomas, and a
jet to get me there.

Other sugges-
tions to spend a
million greenbacks on: one million Cokes to pass out on
campus (Die, Pepsil), a huge pizza party for the entire stu-
dent body, a printing plant so the Phi could go intema-
tional, a million lotto tickets, a villa in the south of France, a
Fancy Dress date.

I know that paying my parents back for the tuition and
spending money for these four years of my life would be
the proper thing to do. But can’t I be greedy for once? A
little bit of planning could allow me to make use of the
money for years to come, but what about instant gratiﬁca-
tion? Admit it-, we all want a little bit of fun. '

This would be kind of like winning the lottery. What

 

aterial world’

would you do? Would you quit school and spend the
cash, or would you take the responsible route and plan for
the future?

I hear cases of people winning millions of dollars and
then keeping their jobs working at the local factory, and I
question these people’s sanity. Maybe we should con-
sider that they are actually doing the responsible thing.

But, where is the fun in this? I want to take the money
and spend it not considering the results. Non-eamed cash
is meant to be spent.

The Barbie Dream House and the pink Corvette were
Christmas wishes as a child, but when I think about it a
huge mansion and
a race-car would
not be that bad.
“We are living in a
material world, and
I am a material girl.”

Diamonds may
be a girl’s best
friend, but cash is
even better. It’s
real, and you can
spend it. Do with it
what you will. My
personal choice is
to be the irrespon-
sible twenty-year
old that I am —take
advantage of my
youth and when
someone asks me why I was so stupid, tell them, “I only
wanted to have a little fun.”

We live in a society that puts an emphasis on what we
have and not who we are. A nice car, a designer name
wardrobe, and the ability to spend your summers in Eu-
rope must be nice. Supposedly money cannot lead to hap-
piness, but it sure can make us a lot more comfortable than
we could be without it.

The next time the Board of Trustees decides to dole out
a little bit ofcash, I hope it will keep me in mind. And ifmy
luck holds out, it will happen before I am too resonsible to
enjoy it.

By Hollister Hovey

17/tr Bur/mum old Hie“\/mug 

   
   
  
     

Wt 8uol—t#<t\)AN to
,, . _?té1oH A cow «evil.

_  5; C0l/(\lT?- WOULD
 BE A Mvotl iiaemea
Moe lz’— lie: wan;
fiZt%ii>eNT. WE New
Awtw Maze oi:
U19 t2l2M\Ji>‘ OF

 

"éoMram\ie'g vw/as km;
é0lM&T’0 FZEV/llL.wHvl( Hal
0”"-97Wltv9E z/ouut Z1 L4 if
it N‘twM’.’ wttma l/imam,
(ml/‘(Z swig we MML
uxirez-Peae witll Mwé
gill/‘I’ ED 136 /‘-1’/Wvlfloirle
t at, ur Must xr
Aldo Vizoreor lrtlé  F
T095 M7lZAot1cw(,
4/oi7oMIte? —9uomwIw
The iéwaxs an aw.
Z7}; -01»

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   

1% clrtw Au btxl l’lVl"lt>99XUf<L‘7. ..

   

4 QALLA5 Mcztxlm
, NEW6, 1.-Mb

    

 

Buokkwkuou WoM¢N;_| “womaq
gag ./7iMt7i,\{ Nt7i”6NDOW6P WlTH’lH‘E
ewe Mtawauﬂe 0F 9lN bl,9’MlNl799
kMgmviJ mo THE \/VKLLTD 6944660
IN TH12 Ftazc aw wM?armvE watzw
w 0? WEQTEFN awtrrxtiemt‘ —
WT \77Uolrt>«Np<N

4T-WVI5 70‘fl'-Dl’2F,A:t‘ul 7.-16410 \

 

 

 

