   

W&L|FE§‘

Washington and Lee University
VOLUME 100, NUMBER 11

Sanders
vacates
Newcomb,
goes home

(D A notice posted on Professor
Sanders door told students if they
wanted to talk with him, he’d “be
in front of Newcomb Hall at 11
a.m. on most week days.”

BY KATHRYN MAYURNIK

NEWS EDITOR

“For Rent: Ph.D will teach for food,” reads the black
and ﬂuorescent orange sign on Professor of History 1.
Taylor Sanders’ door. A closer look reveals a small, type-
written note below, implying that the outside of his door
is all anyone is going to see of Sanders’ office this term.

The note outside his door states that he will be work-
ing at his house for the remainder of the term and will not
continue his regular office hours. Sanders is also drop-
ping his advisees. ‘

“I request that you DO NOT disturb me there (at
home),” he states. He will be outside Newcomb Hall
around 11 a.m. on “most week days,” he wrote in the
note. “As of Jan. 12, I will no longer serve as an advisor
 I hope this change does not inconvenience you.”

Jan. 12 also marked the date of Washington and Lee’s
new smoking policy, which banned smoking in all univer-
sity buildings, with the exception of the smoking rooms in
the library. The policy change greatly affected faculty mem-
bers who, like Sanders, customarily smoked in their oﬁices.

Sanders refused to comment on whether he is work-
ing at home because of the new smoking policy.

“I think that it (the note) speaks for itself,” he said.

Laurent Boetsch, Dean of the College, was not aware
of Sanders’ decision.

“I don’t know how to react,” Boetsch said. He
would like to reserve comment until after he speaks
with Sanders.

Boetsch was unclear about any action the university
might take against Sanders or whether professors need to
have a certain number of office hours per week.

“We ask professors to post office hours,” Boetsch said.
“It appears that Professor Sanders has posted his as 11
a.m. every day outside Newcomb Hall.”

Senior Rust Cadwallader, who has taken many of Sand-

Unviversity Scholars: Q)

Who are they? What |—

do they do?
The Phi

M
O

 

Men’s Basketball:
The boys just finished the
week 2-1 by beating
Dickinson and Lynchburg —

N JAMES G. LEYBURN LIBHAHV
ASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
IEXINGTON, VA 24450

awarded roles in

investigates. n_ find out the details. year’s shows.
PAGES PAGE 7 pAGE 3
3&4 m

 

U112 ﬂing-tum lﬁhi

Seven ofieA—§Ct%s,32,%998
chances to win. Discover

the lucky students

this

 

Bulk Rate
US Postage
PAID
Pcnnit No. 7
Lexington. Va.

Monday
JANUARY 19, 1998

ZEUS—— KING
OFALL DOGS

Emily Framptom, senior,
and John Welford, junior

are co-owners of Zeus. The

chocolate labrador arrived
with F ramptom after
Christmas Break. The
puppy was a present to
herself Zeus lives at
Welford ’s house on Route
60 because F ramptom ’s
landlord doesn '2‘ allow
pets. F ramptom spends
more than eight hours a
day with Zeus, who weighs
1 1 pounds. She purchased
the labrador for $200 in
Kentucky. Welford and

F ramptom are still
deciding who Zeus will live
with after graduation.
Pnoro COURTESY or ERICA
Pelletier

ers’ classes, would not comment on his decision.

“He is just a great guy,” Cadwallader said. “His lectures
are very engrossing.”

B.J. Walker, a junior who is in a class of Sanders’ this
term, said that Sanders has cancelled two of their papers,
but that this change has nothing to do with Saunders’ move
to his house.

“I think that it has more to do with the fact that there are

Sprinkler sprays Kappa Sig

BY HEATHER MCDONALD

AssT. NEWS EDITOR

A fire alarm went off on the third
ﬂoor of the Kappa Sigma house on
Friday, Jan. 16, activating the sprin-
kler system in senior Eric Ridler’s
room.

All the brothers had been down-
stairs eating lunch at the time of the
sprinkler activation.

“Someone yelled downstairs,
‘Hey Ridler! Your sprinkler’s on!’
I thought they were joking,” said
Ridler.

When he went upstairs, there
were three-and-a-half inches of wa-
ter on the ﬂoor of his room. No one
knows why the ﬁre alarm went off.

“I just got my phone working to-
day,” said Ridler.

The damage is considered exten-
sive, although there is no" monetary
estimate on the damage yet.

The water then leaked down to
the second ﬂoor, causing minor
damage.

Although much of the damage s
has since been fixed, there are

problems with the electrical wiring.
“The lights go on and offsomtimes,”
said sophomore Kappa Sigma Eric
Englebart.

W&L’s deductible for damage to
the house is $5,000, and Ridler says
that his personal homeowner’s insur-
ance will most likely pay for the rest.

“It really sucks,” said Ridler. “I’m
hoping to get some of my stuff back
in my room early this week, but it I
don’t know ifI can plug stuffin yet.”

His belongings are still drying and
strewn throughout the house.

One small step for smokers

BY WILL HARDIE
COPY EDITOR

When faculty smokers were turned
out into the cold last week, one campus
smoking haunt got a surprise reprieve.
Rather than closing as expected, the li-
brary smoking rooms will remain open
indefinitely. Strong pressure from
smokers who used the rooms helped
win over the library staff.

Some professors who used to smoke
in their offices are now taking advan-
tage of the library smoking lounges, due
to the ban on all classroom and admin-
istrative building smoking that was
implemented Jan. 12.

“I see a lot of professors during the
day now, popping in and out to have a
cigarette,” smoking lounge resident
Vanessa Hall said. “I’m glad that they
didn’t close the smoking lounges-they

are the only place you can smoke on

campus now.”
In a letter circulated to all students
Jan. 9, President John Elrod said, “This

revised policy is prompted by the
importance ofproviding a healthy
environment for all members of
this community.”

The library was allowed to de-
cide its own policy.

During the smoking policy con-
sultation period in November,
Head Librarian Barbara Brown
implied that the smoking study and
the two smoking lounges were go-
ing to close, even though the li-
brary was not included in the pro-
posed policy change.

“It’s not clear yet what will hap-
pen, but it is the staffs view that
maybe the time has come to de-
clare this a nonsmoking building,”
Brown said Nov. 15.

Since then, Brown and her staff
have reconsidered their position.
Brown said Wednesday that she
had been surprised by the degree
of opposition to the closures.

“I did hear from some students

about what was going to happen
if we didn’t have any smoking
space, and I listened to that,” she
said. “I was worried about the is-
sue of library users walking
through a haze of smokers to get
in. And smokers standing at the
side doors and propping them
open is not good from a security
point of view.”

All ofthese issues were aired,
arguments then seemed then to be
in favor of closing the smoking
rooms. The main concern was
smoke leaking out ofthe lounges
and affecting non-smokers. But
smokers’ recent protests helped
sway the balance.

“This is a facility that needs to
be used by everybody,” said
Brown. She decided that ifit was
possible to accommodate smok-
ers without bothering nonsmok-
-ers, the current arrangement
should remain.

a lot more students than he expected in his classes this term,
and he didn’t have time to grade all of them,” said Walker.

Walker believes that the smoking policy is unfair.

“I don’t smoke, so I think its kind of annoying,” Walker
said. “But, I don’t think they should prevent him from smok-
ing in his ofﬂce. He’s not hurting anyone.”

—Liz Detter, Andrea Ewing and Courtney Miller con-
tributed to this article.

Another one bites the dust

The first female to enroll officially at Virginia Mili-
tary Institute has withdrawn from the school.

The Associated Press reported Sat. that Beth Hogan
of Junction, Ore., dropped out of school Friday because
VMI’s rigorous testing of its freshmen was not for her.

Hogan went to VMI with hopes of becoming a Navy
pilot, VMI spokesman Michael Strickler said Saturday.

Disaster Strikes Graham-Lees:
F ly i n g s o u p
cans damage
dormitory

BY WILL HARDIE

COPY EDITOR

“There was soup everywhere -— all over the walls, all
over the ﬂoor. It wasjust incredible,” said security guard
Scott “Wild Irishman” Scott Rowe.

Around midnight Saturday Rowe stumbled across an
overexcited freshman hurling cans of Campbell’s veg-
etable soup against the walls on the first ﬂoor of Graham
Lees dormitory. “There was a crowd gathered around him,
and they were all shouting, ‘go! go!‘,” said Rowe.

Rowe said he made the freshman wipe up the mess
with his own towel.

Last weekend’s fraternity pledgeship celebrations were
associated with a spate of property damage and vandal-
ism around the university, for which Dean ofthe Fresh-
man Program Dennis Manning said, “there is no excuse.”

“lt was mindless exuberance. There is no excuse for it
at all and we have no tolerance for it as a community,”
Manning said.

Graham-Lees was at the epicenter ofthe damage. On
Friday night, rampaging freshmen sprayed shaving foam
on the walls of first ﬂoor corridors, and stampeded through

 SEE SOUP PAGE 2

Captive Nations Week:
Contact asks

ex-Panther
to lecture

BY WILL HARDIE
COPY EDITOR
Once a leftist freedom ﬁghter, the man who later de-

nounced communism as “humanity’s vomit. Wipe it out!”
will speak at Washington and Lee.

Ex—Black Panther and hijacker Anthony Bryant will open
W&L’s Captive Nations week on Thursday.

Originally a tough left-wing freedom fighter, Bryant is
now a human rights activist, and ranks among Fidel Castro’s
most vehement critics.

Bryant graduated from three of the nation’s toughest peni-
tentiaries, to become a senior officer in the Black Panthers
by 1969. At the time he joined the Black Panthers, he had a
rap sheet “three feet long” for armed robbery and several
other felonies. ’

On March 5, 1969, he hijacked a ﬂight to Cuba, intend-
ing to solicit Castro’s support for his race war. But he care-
lessly robbed an undercover Cuban secret service officer on
the ﬂight, and was ﬂung into jail as soon as he touched down.

Having spent twelve years in unspeakable conditions, sub-
jected to torture, a year in solitary and for the rest of his time
consigned to a 4-by-8-foot cell, Bryant quickly renounced
his revolutionary beliefs.

On return to the United States in 1982, he told reporters,
“I am deliriously happy. The United States is the greatest
country in the world!”

Since 1992, he has led several military operations against
Cuba. In 1997 he denounced violence and began a peaceful
political and propaganda campaign in Miami and is consid-
ered to be a “true American hero” by Miami’s Cuban com-
munity and others.

Bryant is now a columnist for several Miami newspa-
pers, works to free Cuban prisoners and is active in local
politics.

Bryant will speak in the Northen Auditorium at 7.30 p.m.
on Thursday Jan. 22. The series of speeches will continue
next week with anti-subversion exert Morgan Norval on
Tuesday night, and Chinese dissident Hairy Woo on Thurs-
day. '

Congress established Captive Nations Week in 1959;
W&L will observe it in January rather than in its traditional
June, which would be outside term time.

 

PAGE 2

  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
   
 
  
   
 
   

BY ERIN MORORONY

 

STAFF WRITER
If you are a fratemity boy who loves
pizza and is interested in a free band
party for your fraternity, Domino’s is
sponsoring a contest just for you.
Domino’s is hosting a ten-day fra-
ternity challenge. The fraternity that
orders the most pizzas will get the
chance to have a party with The Hose,
a band popular in Roanoke and neigh-
boring states, Domino’s Marketing

news
Pizza: food for
gods, frat boys

JANUARY 19, 1998

Owl],” said Siegel. “Wayne is a great
guy and we thought that we could use
the contest to help him out, too.”

The contest began this Friday and
concludes at midnight on Superbowl
Sunday. You can get an update on how
your fraternity is doing at the Interfra-
temity Council meeting Jan. 19 or by
calling Domino’s either before noon
Jan. 23 or right before the Superbowl
kickoff Jan.25. Winners will be an-
nounced at the IFC meeting on Jan

 
  

   
 

  

  

Psijunior John McAllister. “Now that
we could get a free band, you can be
sure that I’m going to eat Domino’s
even more.”

Siegel said that W&L fraternity
members are some of Domino’s best
buyers. Having the contest would show
the appreciation of Domino’s, while at
the same time boosting pizza sales.

“Fratemity boys are great custom-
ers,” said Siegel. “The FIJIs sometimes
manage to clean us out of pizzas on the
weekends. Our sales to fraternities are

just as high as our sales to hotels.”

To~take part in the contest, just or-
der from the fraternity house phone to
receive a one pizza credit. Domino’s
has created a system that automatically
logs the time and origin of orders.

For those who want the band, but
don’t want to put on too many pizza
pounds, make a trip to Night Owl. For
every CD or tape purchased, you can
earn an additional two points. If you
really want to win this contest, buy The
Hose CD or tape and earn a whopping
four points.

“We know that the new Crossroads
music store is stiff competition for

Wayne [Raynal, the owner of Night

Be aPart of 1.:

Become a Trained Peer Health Educator
on Health and Wellness Issues

Alcohol

Exercise

Nutrition

Mental Health

Sexuality ~
Stress Management

Make a Difference at W 85 L

Pie/e up an appiieationform and sign-upfbr
an interview by Tuesday, fanuary 27, at the

University Center in front of Carol Calkins’ oﬂiee
Training begins Tuesday, February 24.

Questions?

Call the Health Education Office

@ 462-4501

    
    

Manager Jennifer Siegel said. 26.

siege] presented her idea to the In- Domino’s expects to sell at least
terfratemity ‘ one hun-
Council  __ dred piz-
during last !}azr=sm=a’H‘2_,__gv_ _ o,t.mg;3g_<m‘;.;.«.« zas dur-
Monday ’ s ﬁsminvk Pizza .’_l{:jmsna‘s mm ing the
meeting. week. If
Recogniz— the con-
ing that the test goes
contest is a w e l 1 ,
no-lose situ- no-gig. ' raw Siegel in-
ation, IFC ‘“*:!€'f"°’*'f7’5'! tends to
members  p l a n
enthusiasti- ,- __ ’ a_,,,,,,,,.:f,1;’;j,“;,A other ac-
cally ap- " ..M3»o»i~%r¥»‘sr*ir.~.~ tivities or
proved the ”"”'“"°“'""’ competi-
ideas. tions for

“I love Domino’s,” said Phi Kappa Spring Term.

“We would like to get sororities in-
volved with some type of Domino’s
contest, but I realize that might be im-
possible,” said Siegel.

“For some reason people seem to
think it’s just great for guys to pig out
on pizza, but it’s not so great for girls

thsoup

CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

the third and fourth floors, overtum-
ing all the trash cans. Someone also
broke all the covers off the vents out-
side the laundry room, and on Satur-
day trespassers damaged the back gate
of the Liberty Hall ruins.

Chief of Security Michael Young
is convinced the incidents were related
to drinking at fraternity parties. “There
is no doubt in my mind,” he said.

Those perpetrators who have been
identiﬁed, including some upperclass-
men, have met with the Deans and have
been referred to the Student Judicial
Council for disciplinary proceedings.
Possible punishments include proba-
tion and a ﬁne of 150 percent of the
value of the damage caused.

 

W&L CELEBRATES GERSHWIN’S

100TH BIRTHDAY WITH JAN. 20 CONCERT

The W&L music faculty and friends will present a musical celebration of George
Gershwin’s 100th birthday at 8 p.m. Tuesday, Jan 20 in the Lenfest Center.

Some of the featured pieces include a duet version of the Three Preludes performed by
Timothy Gaylard and Shuko Watanabe; “Walking the Dog” performed by Barry Kolman,
clarinet, and Watanabe, piano; and “Bidin’ My Time,” sung by Scott Williamson, Gordon
Spice, Robe Mish and Al Gordon.

The performance is open to the public, free of charge.

CAPT I VE NATIONS WEEK FEATURES SPEAKERS

The Contact Committee is hosting three speakers during Captive Nations Week. An-
thony Bryant will speak on Monday, Jan. 22, Morgan Norval on Tuesday Jan. 27, and Harry
Wu on Thursday, Jan 29. All lectures will be held in Northen Auditorium at 7:30 p.m.

Anthony Bryant was a former Black Panther who advocated violence to overthrow Fidel
Castro’s regime in Cuba. Now he focuses on freeing Cuban prisoners and has begun a trust
fund for the jobless.

Morgan Norval is considered an expert on terrorism and guerilla warfare; he has pub-
lished seven books on the subject. He is also the Executive Director of the Selous Founda-
tion, a Washington, D.C. think tank which studies unconventional warfare, terrorism and
subversion. His lecture is titled, “The Triumph of Disorder.”

Harry Wu is a Chinese dissident who was denounced by the Communist Party in 1956 as
a 19-year-old college student who criticized communism during the Hundred Flowers Cam-
paign. After spending the next 19 years in a labor camp, he obtained his visa and came to
the United States. Wu is currently the director of the Laogai Research foundation, and has
testiﬁed before congressional committees concerning human rights violations in China. His
lecture is titled, “China’s War on Human Rights.”

PIANIST CHRISTOPHER TAYLOR TO PERFORM

Christopher Taylor will perform Saturday, Jan. 24, at 8 p.m. in the Lenfest Center. He is
the ﬁrst American since 1981 to reach the ﬁnals in the Van Clibum lntemational Piano
Competition, and went on to win the Bronze Medal. In April 1996, he received an Avery
Fisher Career Grant.

The concert is open to the public free of charge. A reception will follow.

FILM SOCIETY PRESENTS “MICROCOSMOS”

“Microcosmos,” a French ﬁlm directed by Claude Nuridsany and Marie Perennou, will
be shown Friday and Saturday, Jan. 24 and 25, in the Troubador Theater. The ﬁlm is in
French with English subtitles.

Described as a documentary about the insect world, “Microcosmos” is also a poetic ﬁlm.
Though at times shockingly violent, it shows the comic and tragic dimensions of animal
life.

There is no charge for admission.

J OURNALIST, AUTHOR TO LECTURE AT W&L

Slavenka Drakulik, a Quinlan lntemational Scholar at Randolph-Macon Women’s Col-
lege, will speak. on Monday, Jan. 26 at 7 p.m. in duPont Auditorium. She will lecture on
“The Writer and War.” Drakulic is a native of Croatia, and is a journalist and novelist
whose work has been published in The Nation, The New Republic, The New York Times, The
Los Angeles Times and The New York Review of Books.

The public is invited to attend.

—Compiled by Heather McDonald

Blair Beach
Stephanie Bianco
Carly Blakelock
Julie Boncarosky
Amy Calce
Christina Campbell Elizabeth Meyers
Katherine Carter
Vanessa Chen
Catherine Clark
Erin Ferguson
Laura Green
Catherine Harding
Nicole Hartley
Victoria Hays
Anne Hazelett
Sarah Heatherington
Georgiana Hickam

Chi Omega Congratulates its

1998 Pledge Class

Elizabeth Holleman
Lauren Ivanick

Christina Lollar
Christine Metzger

Jessica Parillo

Christine Philips
Ann Richard
Susan Slim ,
Allison Smith
Sarah Walters
Melissa Williams
Mary Woodaard
Alexis Yee Garcia

Jenny Anne Kneisal

Mary Evelyn Payne

7

I

I

 

Q

JANUARY 19, 1998

PAGE 3

SHENANDOAH

The Washington and Lee University Review

Smith creates nationally
acclaimed literary journal

BY FRICA Paossiza

STAFF \lVRl'lER

R.T. Smith can relax. Through the window, he can see

Virginia Military Institute and the mountains behind
it. Birds perch on the windowsill to munch on the birdseed
he provides. All seems very right with the world.

“I love thisjob and I love Lexington,” he said. “I got

In a comfortable office over the Troubadour Theater,

: tired ofteaching.”

Smith, who taught creative writing and literature at

“Auburn University for 19 years, is the editor of

Shenandoah, the literary magazine maintained

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   

by Washington and Lee. Smith publishes the magazine
four times a year, still finding enough hours in the day to
pursue his own writing. That writing, incidentally, earned
him a nomination for a Pulitzer Prize for poetry last year.

Smith never publishes his own work in
Shenandoah, and he doesn’t need to: the magazine re-
ceives hundreds of submissions for every issue. Most
of the writers send in their work unsolicited, though
some are commissioned to write for him. He collects
the three types of writing—poetry, fiction, and essay —
and shapes them into an elegant publication, complete
with a colorful cover.

“The cover art comes from lesser-known artists or
lesser-known paintings,” he said. The cover usually has
something to do with the contents of the magazine, but
sometimes, the painting isjust a beautiful piece deserving
ofa place. Again, some art is solicited, some is not. All of
it, however, means something to Smith.

“You see ihe one with the hummingbirds?” he asked,
pointing to an older copy of the magazine with a cover
picture of hummingbirds against a ﬂowery background.
“The same artist did the cover art of [winter l997’s issue].”
He held up a winter 1997 issue, which indeed fea-
tured a similar painting, this one with scarlet birds.
The artist, Walter Inglis Anderson, impressed
Smith, though Anderson is not as well known as
many other contemporary artists.

The contents of Shenandoah mean as much
to Smith as the cover. He said that the magazine
prints more poems than anything else, but the
majority ofspace is dedicated to prose. A steady
flow of contributed work is accepted and consid-
ered for two to four months before publication.
He has to reject most ofthe contributions, but for
those he keeps, the writer is paid. Poetry pays
$2.50/line, while prose pays $25/page.

Good writers might even make more money
than that, Smith said. The magazine offers three
awards, one for each genre, every year. The win-
ners from the previous year select the winners for

the current year, an arrangement that Smith

wouldn’t change. ‘ ' I ' ‘

“Having to choose a winner, to me, is like
having to choose a favorite child,” he said.

When winners are chosen, they receive award
money. Poetry and essay winners receive $500,
while the fiction winner receives $1,000. The prize money
comes from endowed funds at W&L. The winners receive

IN A SEC LUDED OFFICE ABOVE TROUBADOUR THEATER Shenandoah Editor R. T. Smith reviews submissions
from writers around the world and creates one of the nation ’s top literary journals. 1‘/0I.l.IS’1I:‘R HoVI5i'/R/.v(;-711M PHI

more than money, though: they receive recognition and
honor among the magazines subscribers, of whom there
are many.

“We have about 1,200 subscribers,” Smith said.
When other sales are added to that number, the total
copies sold each season is about 1,500. The number of
sales and the vast number of submissions keep Smith
and his coworkers busy. In the office, he has a manag-
ing editor, a work-study, and an intern. Senior Robin
Seaton was his intern last term.

“It’s a fairly competitive internship,” she said.
Smith offers the three-credit internship though the
W&L English department and gives the job to one
student per term. The student works about eight
hours each week, keeps a journal, and receives a
grade. Seaton got an A.

“I worked on the webpage, did general projects,
learned how to tell what’s good from what’s bad in the
submissions,” Seaton said. “I learned a lot.”

Smith, she said, was fun to work with, although he
was a quiet person. She plans to study English at gradu-
ate school, and this internship was thefirst job of this
caliber she has done.

The help ofhis staffisn’t the only thing Smith enjoys
about his job.

“I have a good sense of autonomy,” he said. “I
keep my own schedule.” He manages to spend one to
two hours each day working on his own writing. His

eeling intellectually stifled?

University Scholars offers students relief  

BYLIZDEITER

\Y/&LirE EDITOR

hat is it and why is it here? At the be-
ginning of the term, many freshmen
and sophomores received an invitation
via e-mail to apply to the enigmatic Uni-
versity Scholars program. Some call
the honors program elite; others call it elitist.

University Scholars consists of 72 members, chosen by
faculty and students. Freshmen and sophomores with a
cumulative GPA of3.5 at the end offall term are eligible for
the program. Scholars and faculty members conduct inter-
views to determine which 18 students to admit. When
choosing the new members, interviewers look for moti-
vated students with a drive to learn.

“Intellectual curiosity wouldlbe high on the list [ofcri-
teria for selection],” said Professor John Lambeth, Direc-
tor ofthe University Scholars program. “All ofthese stu-
dents are smart; it’s not like we’re trying to pick out the
smartest ofthe smart.”

In order to graduate as a University Scholar, students
are required to take a humanities, a social science and a
natural science seminar, write an honors thesis and gradu-
ate with a cumulative GPA of 3.25. University Scholars
courses are also open to a limited number of other stu-
dents. Students who have taken two seminars with a grade
ofB or above and who meet the 3.5 GPA requirement may
apply tojoin the program.

Senior Jennifer Buckey liked the opportunity as a Uni-
versity Scholar to take upper-level courses to fill General
Education requirements, and called the seminars some of
the most “amazing” courses that she has taken at W&L.

“Their aim is far-reaching,” said Buckey. “The profes-
sors teach in broader terms, and as a science major, some
ofthese courses have helped me keep my writing ability.”

“I’ve never had a class before where we watched “Mary
Poppins” or “Terminator,” said Roshni Nirody, sophomore,
about her University Scholars seminar fall term.

Nirody took “Economic Themes in Literature and Film”
to fill the social science seminar requirement.

Professor Arthur Goldsmith used slightly unconven-
tional curriculum to challenge the class to examine socio-
economic perceptions in the aim of increasing students’
economic literacy.

Both students and professor enjoyed the results im-
mensely. “University Scholars is an ideal teaching situa-
tion,” said Goldsmith. “Students come to class with differ-
ent skills and interests. Put them together and they have

really interesting conversations. I enjoyed the breadth of
the conversations we had in class and I learned a lot from
them.”

University Scholars and professors cite the interdisci-
plinary nature of the courses and the variety of majors
represented by students as the main strengths of this
unique program.

Lambeth said that University Scholars provides pro-
fessors with an opportunity to experiment with new topics
of interest and new methods of teaching.

The classes are designed to be demanding and often
have heavier-than-normal workloads in an effort to chal-
lenge students. It can be difficult for some students to
fulfill all of the requirements. Lambeth said that although
each class has 18 Scholars, only around 12 or 13 typically

(6

I’ve never had a class
before where we
watched “Mary Poppins”
or “Terminator.”

—R0shni Nirody

77

graduate with the words “University Scholar” stamped
across their diplomas.

One University Scholar, speaking under the condition
of anonymity, expressed concern that it can be especially
difficult for science majors to write theses.

“In the coming years I hope to do something so that the
program might be a little bit more friendly toward science
majors,” said the Scholar. “I think that the new leaders of
the program would be willing to work on this.”

In addition to the seminars, the University Scholars pro-
gram has also organized several lectures on campus and
given Scholars the opportunity to meet visiting lecturers.

The “State of the Discipline” lectures were prompted
by Scholars’ desire to learn about W&L professors’ re-
search. Last week, the series featured Marc Connor, assis-
tant professor of English; on Feb. 5, assistant professor of
philosophy Jack Wilson will speak.

“I like the new direction that the program is going in,"
said Sara McCrone, junior. “They’re having lots of new

ideas about in-
volvement, with
going to dinner
with speakers on
campus and plans
to renovate the

Red House.”
Goldsmith and
Lambeth ex-

pressed the hope
that the program
stimulates the “life of
the mind” of students
both in and out of the class-
room.

“Students can beneﬁt from being in contact with other
intellectually curious students,” said Lambeth. “A lot of
scholars are people who like to talk about ideas. They are
not the kind of people who worry about whether they are
going to look like nerds for talking in class.”

The University Scholars are involved in choosing new
members and reviewing proposals for upcoming seminars.
The group has a president, vice-president, secretary and
several committees. The University Scholars common
rooms in the Red House provide a meeting place for the
group. Lambeth believes that University Scholars facili-
tates new friendships and contacts for students.

According to Lambeth, a study several years ago re-
vealed that a higher percentage of University Scholars go
on to graduate study and receive academic fellowships
than among the student body at large.

However, some question the need for a university schol-
ars program. Wayne Dymacek, Professor ofMathem atics,
has opposed the program on philosophical grounds since
its inception.

“I don’t think that labeling a group of people as Schol-
ars — when I would think that all ofmy students are schol-
ars —— is a good idea,” he said.

On the other hand, some believe the group to be truly
special.

“I was inspired by working with these students," said
Goldsmith. “A lot ofthe kids from this program are going
to go on and make a mark in their communities They are
very creative and talented men and women.”

Applications are due by Jan. 29. Applicants must sub-
mit an essay and a letter of recommendation from a profes-
sor to be considered. Interviews will be conducted during
the first week of February.

    
  

work is printed in The Georgia Review, The Gettysburg
Review, and Chelsea, all literary magazines.

W&L, too, appeals to him. He loves Lee Chapel, he
said, and he loves to bring visitors there.

“They’re always astonished,” he said, because of a
powerful aura in the building, a feeling that overwhelms
him every time he goes inside. He said that he has always
been a fan of Robert E. Lee.

He also makes frequent trips to Ireland. He has roots
there, but more than that, he appreciates the Irish culture
and literary style.

“I have an abiding interest — as both writer and critic
—~ in Irish literature,” he said. “Poetry, which in the States
is usually considered at best irrelevant to ‘real life’ and at
worst a self—involved perversity, still plays a vital role in
the life of the community over there.”

But despite his travels and his other interests, Smith
has no plans to leave Lexington. He has found a niche,
comfortably settled into the editor’s chair at Shenandoah.
He even has plans for the future of the magazine.

“I’d like to put art inside Shenandoah,” he said.
“I’d also like a contest with a lighter focus, like an imi-
tation Poe contest.”

Smith’s ideas for the future ofthe magazine, com-
bined with his success in his first two—and-a—half years
as editor, make him the best man for thejob. With luck,
W&L will have Smith in the community for many more
years to come.

Gershwin revival
features faculty

BY I.aYLA,CusiER
-—-——- STAFF Wanna,

The Washington
and Lee Music Depart-
ment will present “An
Evening of Gershwin”
on Tuesday, Jan. 20 at 8

‘ p.m. inthe Lenfest Cen-
ter. The concert is in
honor of the 100th armi-
versary of American
composer George
Gershwin’s birth.

All performances will be done by the music fac-
ulty. Some highlights of the concert include a “bar-
ber-shop” quartet, a duet anangement of Gershwin’s
three preludes and familiar vocal selections. The
peculiar vaudeville-style performance will also in-
clude “an unusual stage set-up,” said music profes-
sor Dr. Timothy Gaylard.

Gershwin was born in Brooklyn, N.Y., where
he first learned to play piano by car. He began
his career in his late teens, and reached fame in
the 1920s. _

Gershwin oﬁen collaborated with his brother,
Ira, for song lyrics. The two wrote many famous
musicals, such as “Lady Be Good,” “Oh, Kay! ,” and
“Funny Face.”

Gershwin’s talent was not limited to Broad-
way, but ranged to include opera and classical
works. In 1935, Gershwin wrote “Porgy and
Bess,” the first opera with a black cast. The op-
era was later adapted into a musical. But perhaps
most famous of his compositions is “Rhapsody
in Blue,” an instrumental piece that combined jazz
and classical elements.

Gershwin’s tunes are well-known favorites,
and have been preformed by such artists as
Harry Connick, Peter Nero, the Canadian Brass
and Dave Grusin.

Just two years after writing “Porgy and Bess,”
Gershwin died of a brain tumor. But during his
short life, he had made a lasting impression on
the music world.

Since Gershwin was such a diversely talented
composer, “An Evening with Gershwin” this
Tuesday is sure to be a combination of all types
of American music, enjoyable for even the most
critical audience.

 

GERSHWIN.

 

 

PAGE 4

 

Music major Erik

Christ’s senior compo-
sition recital took the spotlight
at the Lenfest center Thursday
night. The performance com—
prised his Requiem Mass and a
more casual second half with
Christ at the piano singing six
songs that he composed.

“The concert was very
successful,” said Dr.Gordon
Spice, head ofthe music
department and conductor of
the Requiem Mass. “A lot of
people put a lot of work into it.”

The Washington and Lee
chamber singers and a string
ensemble began rehearsals for
the Requiem Mass two weeks
ago, and Christ thought their

performances were remarkable.

In addition, Gary Wertman, a
high school friend of Christ,
played guitar and sang
backup for a song in the
second half.

Christ, who worked on the
mass from May to November, is

By Charlotte Graham and Kelley Totten
— Staff Writers

0\f\Q

familiar with the text of
the Roman Catholic Mass, having
completed twelve years of catholic
school.

“I chose the funeral Mass as
the basis of my senior project
because I view this recital as the
culmination of my college career,”
Christ said in the program notes.
The textjuxtaposes the feelings of
loss and hope that accompany not
only funerals, but also graduation.

The difference between the
first and second halves of the
concert was like the difference
between church and a smoking
lounge. The choir and string
players peeled away leaving Christ
alone at the piano, literally with a
martini and an ashtray for the
occasional cigarette. Red and blue
lights caught the smoke, and the
ambiance was that of a smoky bar
around closing time.

“Ultimately, ifI had my way,
I’d be a rock star,” said Christ,
who will graduate in June with
degrees in music composition and
mass communication.

Two friends support him in that.

“He’s an awesome guy,”
A a r 0 n Michalove said.

W&life

Hints of Mozart, Billy Joel in Christ’s senior recital

“Sometimes at three in the

morning he would drag me up to the
fourth floor of duPont and play his
latest song. Even though they make
you want to cry, they always make
you feel better.”

Jamie Kalista, who sings with
Christ in General Admission, was
with him and some alumni when
Christ played several of his songs.
“They asked him who wrote the
songs and were impressed when he
said that he did.”

But his biggest supporter is his
mother, Donna Christ. “He was in
the boys’ choir at eight; in high
school, he was into drama, thejazz
band, and chorus. He has always
loved performing, and he has
always loved singing.”

As far as composing the Mass,
“I wanted to write something that
would show offmy abilities stylisti-
cally and technically,” Christ said,
“but at the same time, something
that I personally wouldn’t mind
listening to.”

The Requiem Mass combined

JANUARY 19, 1998

tradition with a
contemporary pop style.

“There are some very
effective moments in the
composition when a nice
degree of unity between
the text and the music is
reached,” Spice said.

Several peers commented.
“It was exciting to play a piece
written by a fellow music major,”
said Rebecca Bagdonas, a
violinist for the concert. “The
Mass has been done by so
many composers before, so it
was fascinating to see what one
of my peers did with the text.”

Christ will graduate in June
and hopes to work in the record
industry. He will continue
composing, but will not risk a
career in songwriting at the
present.

“I can’t thank all the people
involved enough,” said Christ.
“They were all instrumental in
getting it done; without them, it
never would have happened.”

Guess who? E—mail the correct names of these faculty members to phi@wlu.edu by 12 a.m. Tues. to be eligible
for a random drawing. The winner will receive an ice cream sundae from Sweet Things, complements of The Phi.

Got a HOT news tip? Call 462-4060

ter You Hit

0
opes.

When you're ready for a study

break, head for Massanutten.

Because College Days are back

during January and February.
Every Wednesday and Friday
from 12:30 to 10:00 p.m. you can
get $18 ski and snowboard lift tickets
and $13 rentals with your valid college ID.

We've got an area just for snowboarding
plus a new snow tubing park. So escape from
the library (or your roommate) and come enjoy
Massanutten. It will save you some money—and

maybe a few brain cells.

1-800-207-MASS

www.massresort.com

Virginia's Four Season Mountain Resort

,1-lit

Wanted llli

if

individuals,
Organizations and Small Groups to Promote
1997 Spring Break Travel Packages
Earn Substantial MONEY and FREE TRIPS
Call INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS

1-800-327-6013

Student

NVELO PE STU FFING

EXCELLENT
EXTRA INCOME NOW!
E

— S600 - $800 every week
Free Details: SASE to
International Inc.
1375 Coney Island Ave.
Brooklyn, New York 11230

Hgotld UBININHS

  

gwv

0 Over 75 accredited courses
0 French Immersion Program
. Fine Arts Program
I Advanced Photography and

  

Web Design Programs
0 Cultural Excursions

For more infbrmatian, tall or write:

The American University of Paris
Summer Programs, Box S-2000
102 rue St. Dominique

75007 Paris, France

Tel. (33/1)-1/0 62 06 14

Fax (33/1) 40 62 0717

New York office: Tel. (212) 985-1414

LEXINGTON
UNPLUGGED

BY GINGER Pnrurps
—————— STAFF WRHER

If you didn’t catch the acoustic
concert at Lenfest Saturday night, then
you definitely missed out on some
great music and a lot of fun. “One
Acoustic Evening” was a benefit con-
cert for the spring break in Nicarauga
and Christmas in April. For three
hours twelve local groups entertained
a packed house with music ranging
from oldtime and bluegrass to rock and
alternative.

Organizers for the Nicaragua trip,
sophomore Elizabeth Harvey andjun-
ior John McAllister, believe the con-
cert was a huge success. “It was amaz-
ing to see the turnout. There were
people sitting in the aisles, and we
even had to turn some people away,”
said Harvey.

The benefit concert was orga-
nized by guitarist Burr Datz, whoalso
performed in the show. Other artists
included Mike Seeger, an oldtime gui-
tar player who has recorded with Bob
Dylan; Carol Elizabeth Jones and
James Leva, a couple who play and
sing beautiful, somber music in the
Grand Ole Opry style. Bruce Clark and
the Ruley Boys also performed.
Seeger says Clark is “a living encyclo-
pedia offolk music,” and it is obvious
that this banjo player performed folk
songs with an upbeat rhythm.

Many other performers were W&L
students, professors and alumni.
Sophomore music major Josh Harvey
played piano while senior Robert
Hughes sang. Sophomore Ginny
Jemigan said, “Josh is amazing and

Robert’s singing is phenomenal. All
of the musicians are so talented, and
this is a really great show.”

Senior John Wilbersjoined VMI
senior Mike Kelleher for some acous-
tic rock songs. Chris Leva (W&L ’86)
jammed on the guitar, and Larry Keel,
ﬂatpicking champion and his wife
Jenny (W&L ’89) also played some
great tunes. My personal favorite act
was Wildshadow, the duo of Tom
Jennings, Director of Law School De-
velopment at W&L, and Mary Jo
Ramsey-Smith. Other acts included
local realtor and guitarist, Jim Brown,
and singer/songwriter Leslie Tucker.

W&L philosophy professor W.
Lad Sessions said, “It is wonderful
that we have so much local talent. I
really enjoyed the show.”

Over 450 people attended the ben-
efit concert, which raised around
$2,250 to support the alternative spring
break projects. Organizers of the
projects believe that these are worthy
causes to support. This is the fourth
annual trip to Nicaragua, and organiz-
ers hope to go again next year.

The eight students traveling to
Nicaragua this February will helpto re-
build an orphanage. McAllister said,
“It is is a great opportunity to gain
global respect for one of the poorest
countries in Central America. It should
be a life-changing experience for both
the W&L students and the people in
Nicaragua.”

Freshman Colin Tate summed up
the concert, “It was a wonderful expe-
rience, and I think that it’s great that
it has brought the Lexington
community together.”

111111111111111111
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
.|

STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS
TO A $35
DISCOUNT WHEN ADVER-
TISING WITH THE H11.
THINK ABOUT IT.

Subway Sandwiches and Salads
453 E. Nelson St.

FEED A menu or
PRTYA

    

it
Make your bash a smash with a Subway Party Sub or Party Platter.
You tell us how long you want your Party Sub — and we’ll make it
And we‘ll stuff your Party Platter with your favorite subs —
sliced in tasty 4" portions. Call Subway and make plans for
your party. Big plans.

 

463-3322

njmnu.

V”

 

  

JAN 19, 1998

Wash those hands and
do not touch your eyes

Winter Term is under way. ‘Tis the season
for radical Virginia temperature swings,
erronious snow forecasts and the ravages of the
ﬂu bug. There are few people on this campus
who haven’t had the ﬂu, or at least have a
friend or roommate who has it.

On a campus of this size, and especially in
the dorms, it is almost impossible not to catch
the bug that is going around. If it starts down
your hall, you can almost count the days until
you get it.

So, The Ring-tum Phi would like to give
some health advice to those of our fellow
students who are unlucky enough to contract
the ﬂu.

First, cover your mouth when you cough.
Not only are you spreading germs, but it is also
really disgusting. No one wants a View of your
infected tonsils.

Second, if you are really sick, don’t go to
class. Most professors on this campus are really
understanding about sickness, especially around
this time of the year. If your professor makes
you show up to your class, take that empty seat
in the back comer of the room.

Third, touching your eyes is a really good
way to get sick. Wash your hands often. You’ll
keep yourself and others from getting sick.

Fourth, don’t hook up if you’re sick. There’s
still plenty of time to get an FD date. Getting
sick is another of those really gross post-
hookup presents you’d rather not deal with.
The walk of shame is deﬁnitely enough.

Fifth, take care of your friends. If one of
your friends or roommates is sick, help him
out. It goes a long way to making them feel
better, and you might get the favor returned
when you are lucky enough to get it. Chicken
soup, saltiries, and lots of ﬂuids are wonderful
gifts for those in need.

In short, the ﬂu bug, well, just bites. It’s no
fun to get it, it’s no fun to live with those who
have it. So take care of yourself, take care of
your friends, and we’ll all be a healthier, hap-
pier campus.

“ rim?

‘i%,,,W(j”uote of the week:

~23.
'<:7:.,-.
wag-r

.«r'

No comment.

— many different people when Phi writers
contacted them this week.

Ellie ﬂing-tum iﬂlii

Executive Editors Courtney Miller

Jason Zacher
Managing Editor Hillary Coombs
Associate Editor Andrea Ewing
News Editor Kathryn Mayurnik
Assistant News Editor Heather McDonald
w&life Editors Liz Detter
Tarah Grant
Opinion & Editorial Editor Frances Groberg
Sports Editor John Stewart
Copy Editor Will Hardie
Photo Editor Hollister Hovey
Online Editor Tom Wadlow
Circulation Manager Matthew Craig
Advertising Editor Steven Klotz

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for the Ring-
tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and
subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor and
Business Manager, but the Ring-tum Phi is otherwise
independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “My Views” do not
retlect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reflect the opinions of the Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

Fax: (540) 462-4059

E-mail: phi@wlu.edu

Ah, the joys of pledgeship season

Yes, it’s the most wonderful time of the year —
PLEDGESHIP! Judging by the already record number
of stomach pumps this class has needed, we can assume
that this year’s frosh are really quite a dimwitted bunch
of sheep, even by W&L standards! Since none of them
are likely to_question a single aspect of their pledgeship
programs, that means it’s holiday time for slave-driving
upperclassmen. So put down that paddle and join me in
singing our traditional pledgeship holiday songs.

 

Violent Night

(sing to the tune of “Silent Night”)

Violent night, bloody night

I’ve seen more love at a gang ﬁght

Round up pledges and beat them with sticks
Bonding like brothers through punches and kicks
Christ, my clothes are all torn!

Christ, my clothes are all torn.

Violent night, gory night
S&M freaks have orgasmic delight
Beaten by brothers with paddles and whips

Yes, sharing is
for everybody

Sharing is something we all learned to do in kinder-
garten.

It was easy. If I had the ﬁretruck and you had the
ﬁremen ﬁgures, we played together. I traded you a cookie
for a piece of celery covered in peanut butter. V Ifl needed
somewhere to sit on the way home, you moved over so
that I could sit on the seat, too.

  

 Brick Row
‘ 

When we shared, everything worked out well.

Nowadays, we have bigger toys. Instead of G.I. Joe
ﬁgures, we have the classrooms other people want, the
computers other people need to write English essays, the
lab equipment other people need tomorrow.

Like our toys, the rules have changed as well. Shar-
ing isn’t always seen as the norm. Sometimes, sharing is
not possible at all.

For example, many students choose to study in the

science building in the evening. l,.Jr1ifortunately,,the mg- ,_

jority of these students seem unwilling to ‘share the class-
rooms they ﬁnd. It’s as though they’ve staked their terri-
tory and posted fair warning for any unwanted visitors.

In one extreme case, my friend James walked into a
geology lab he needed one evening only to ﬁnd two stu-
dents studying economics. He worked quietly, doing what
he needed to do. When he left the room, however, the
two students locked him out. The work James needed
was inside and he was trapped outside.

(This story has a happy ending: James used his lab
key to get into the room. The two students seemed sur-
prised. James went back to work.)

We should be more willing to share classrooms. We
only need one of the dozens of seats in any given room.
Two people ought to be able to comfortably occupy a 30-
foot-by-30-foot room.

I don’t rrrind using a room with another student. I
only ask one courtesy: It’s polite to ask if you can use a
room that someone else is using. That’s sharing.

Unfortunately, bigger toys means it’s not always pos-
sible to share. Computer labs are a good example. One
of the computer science labs is set up so that only CS
students and majors can use the computers there. A sign
on the door of the geology computer lab warns students
that the lab is for geology students only.

There are good reasons why these restrictions have
been established. First, software which CS and geology
students need is only available on those machines. If
Turbo C++, a programming software package, were on
all of the computers across campus, then there would be
no need to keep people from using the CS labs. As things
stand, however, access to those computers needs to be
restricted.

Second, some computer labs olfer free printing to stu-
dents who are enrolled in classes associated with those
labs. Only students in those classes are intended to enjoy
that privilege. Since there is no way to make some people
pay and to offer free printing to others, only certain people
should be able to use the labs.

The rules have changed, but the idea is the same: If
you have something that you can share with others, you
should. If someone can’t share with you what you want,
then go get a different toy.

See you in the science building. I’ll bring the cookies.

v4"

  

3*“

*3‘ 
TAI ,K     

 

“I’ll probably have to be a wait-
ress for Sigma Chi.”
— Matt Howenstein ’0l

      

 

“Strip naked and paint my enitre
body green and white.”

Forced to chug vodka and whiskey and dip
Christ, my clothes are all torn!
Christ, my clothes are all torn.

Hark, the Sisters Serenade

(sing to the tune of “Hark, the Herald Angels Sing”)
Hark, the sisters serenade ‘

Naked on the Colonnade

Singing silly sorority songs

Dressed in less than bikini thongs

Joyful guys on the hill that night
Who happen upon this happy sight
With a trembling voice they shriek
“Hope you do this again next week!”

God Rest Ye Weary Freshmen

(sing to the tune of "God Rest Ye Merry Gentlemen”)
God rest ye weary freshmen, you’re gonna need that sleep
You’ll never see your bed again for several busy weeks
Thcy’ll forceyouto do menial tasks cuzyouare such a sheep
Oh tidings of Southern Comfort and joy,

Southern Comfort and joy
Oh tidings of Southern Comfort and joy

God rest ye weary freshmen, it’s only three o’clock
Your brother wants some cigarettes so head on down the block
Or we’ll attach you to car batteries and give you quite a shock

Oh tidings of Southern Comfort and joy,
Southern Comfort and joy
Oh tidings of Southern Comfort and joy

Rudolph, the Red Nosed Freshman
Rudolph, the red nosed freshman
had a rather trying night

Tried to consume eight gallons

Of Michelob and Natty Light

All of the other pledges

Call each other by pledge names
They beat the pants off Rudolph

In several rounds of drinking games

Then in the infirrnary, the doctor came and said
Rudolph, with your nose so red

Medically you should be dead.

Then all the brothers loved him

And they souted with elation

“We’re glad you didn’t die, dude,

’Cuz then we’d be put on probation!”

Wreck the Hill

(sing to the tune of “Deck the Halls”)

Wreck the Hill with frat graﬂiti, fa la la la la, la la la la
Makeyourdesklookcheapandseedy, falalalala, lalalala
Write Greek letters on the tables, fa la la la la la, la la la
Prove your frat’s for f-ing a-holes, fa la la la la, la la la la

15 Minutes of Shame

   
   

Mn\<-hot.
ovnruli-J15

7’/z.

   

?
G QU-J  TJ+Q.ol)‘-it
J

‘NM-‘r

1 wave, 8 co~smu~7
ammonia.

pearl. _

 

 

  
   
 

’ cntrrrem
KMLL ar.t:‘r-fﬁ*“‘

 

L.-

ii solution to the smoking issue eonve

A1 '?.¢1>o \l°‘-"5":

  

  

D

Avirmﬁ _J
nieotly overlooked by President Eliot

One columnist

makes

amends for past grievances

(Editor ’s note: Reeling from the controversy that last
week’s colunm stirred up, Eric Swensen has vowed to be-
come a kinder, gentler columnist, striving to be as bland
and inoffensive as possible. Without any ﬁirther ado, here
is the new, improved Eric Swensen.)

 

Washington and Lee University is located in the hu-
colic city of Lexington, Virginia, a cultural Mecca and cen-
ter of progressive social thinking. Students enjoy a fabu-
lous relationship with the residents of the surrounding area,
whom they have affectionately dubbed “townsfolk.”

Students also get along well with cadets from the Vir-
ginia Military Institute, whom they refer to as “military
gentlemen” (and “gentlewomen”). Other frequent visitors
to campus include scholars from a number of surrounding
women’s colleges. They are greeted warmly by W&L
women, who call them “our sisters-in-arms.”

W&L facilities are top-notch. The students frequently
boast about being a “Division III school with Division I

“I’m just going to the

—— Jack Alford ’00 — Max

.-

 

house and we’re ordering pizza.”

facilities.” Parking on campus is more than ample. If, for
some reason, you can’t ﬁnd a parking spot on campus, don’t
worry about those signs in town that say “two-hour park-
ing.” Those signs are there just for show.

Academically, W&L is among the top schools in the cam-
pus computer system, ensuring every student has access to
fail-safe computers for research and writing.

Of course, there is much more to W&L than just hard
work. The unoﬂicial student motto is “Work hard, and do
your best to ﬁnish that six-pack.” Administrators are con-
cerned about students’ refusal to come out of these aestheti-
cally pleasing library before midnight on weekends and to
chip in for communal sources of alcohol. One administra-
tor, who wished to remain anonymous, said, “I wish these
kids would cut loose and have a good time once in a while.”

The social scene centers around W&L’s 15 fraternities,
though independents can have just as good a time. Most
Friday and Saturday nights, students gather in the basement
“party rooms” to the debate the issues of the day, such as
“America’s foreign policy during the Cold War” and “Do
tan khzikis match everything?” While enjoying a selection
of all-natural fruit juices from the bar.

In short, what’s not to like?

What are you doing for the Super Bowl?

 

“Going to watch Denver lose be-
cause they beat Pittsburg.”

— Kurt Acker ’0l

fraternity

Smith ’0l

 

 

 
 

Letters to The Ring-tum Phi

FIJI objects to Swensen’s words

I was very disappointed and shocked when I
read Eric Swensen’s column, “From a Bar Stool,”
in your last edition. As a journalism major, I was
shocked that someone who received the same
education as me would take part in such
irresponsible journalism. I was disappointed
because my fraternity, Phi Gamma Delta, have
done everything possible to be model citizens
since the incident mentioned ﬁve years ago, yet
our name is being slandered again.

My utter disbelief stems from the liberal
attitude Mr. Swensen took towards the facts.
Although he said in his column that he didn’t
mean to implicate us in the break-in of a FIJI
pledge’s room five years ago, by bringing up the
incident, and through his snide, underhanded
remarks, he implicated us in every way. although
no FIJI was ever convicted of the break-in, Mr.
Swensen decided to try the case in his paper
where there would be no defense. I ’m certain that
the University and the police looked into the
incident at the time and determined the any of
FIJIs were guilty, but ﬁve years later, Mr.
Swensen makes us defend ourselves again. I
thought there was no such thing as double
jeopardy.

There are no brothers who are currently active
in the FIJI house who were even attending
Washington and Lee at the time of this alleged
break-in. The university gave us a stiff penalty for
the hazing incident and we have done everything
possible to make sure something like that doesn’t
happen again. We have rebuilt the house from a
membership of less than 20 after our penalty to a
st_rong one consisting of more than 40 brothers.
Yet Mr. Swensen wants to write about an incident

that occurred before he was here and one which
he knows nothing about.

I recommend that Mr. Swensen get of the bar
stool, stop drinking and start attending some
journalism classes so that he may learn
something. On this one he really missed the
mark.

Eric Zavolinsky
Phi Gamma Delta brother, Class of 1998

‘No Smoking’ policy to drive
many professors from offices

It would be irresponsible of me not to respond
publicly to your encyclical prohibiting smoking
in faculty and staff offices. The wording of your
memorandum of January 9, tends to obscure the
real issue because it makes no mention of the
actual change you have mandated. All faculty
offices are located in classroom buildings, and
the policy in place prior to today prohibited
smoking everywhere in those buildings except in
offices assigned to faculty and staff.

For those of us who choose to smoke, the new
policy is far more than inconvenient; it is oner-
ous. It will have the certain effect of driving
many of us out of University office space. We will
not be as available to students as we should be,
and that nullifies Washington and Lee’s excellent
and long-touted policy of doors open to students.

I agree that your policy change may be called
for, but we do not have reliable evidence that it
is. Air quality in classroom and administrative
buildings may in fact be dangerous to the health
of those who do not smoke, and tobacco smoke
might contribute to poor- air quality. But as Dean
Boetsch told me this morning, no actual measure-
ment of air quality has been made, so we obvi-
ously cannot know whether smoking in faculty
offices is a threat serious enough to warrant the
prohibition you have declared.

Dean Lourent Boetsch also told me that the
Director of Personnel Bob Fox looked at a variety
of sources in trying to determine the degree of
health risk posed by different levels of exposure
to tobacco smoke. They found that clear and
reliable data do not exist. Reliable data do exist,
of course, to show that exposure at some level of
intensity and duration is injurious to health, but
there exists no agreement in the scientific and
medical communities about what those level are.

Because we do not know what level of expo-
sure constitutes a threat, and because we do not
know what the air quality in our classroom and
administrative buildings, your policy smacks
more of political correctness than of evidence-
based management. That constitutes a serious
departure them the management principles that
have in place here since 1749.

Moreover, this is the first time in my 38 years
at Washington and Lee that i have not been at
liberty to determine what may go on in office
space assigned to me by the University. Now that
I am no longer authorized to control the office, I
have cause to wonder what other conduct may be
prohibited, or required, in the future. I also
understand that, once the University prohibits a
behavior, all conduct not specifically prohibited
is permitted. Certainly that is a tinie-honored
principle in law.

Dean Boetsch told me that complaints about
tobacco smoke came from two kind of people,
those who have a diagnosed medical condition
that can be exacerbated by smoke and those who
harbor some fear of possible future illness
traceable to exposure to tobacco. It seems to me
that little imagination is required to find ways to
isolate those colleagues without causing such
drastic disruption to smokers. I am sure there
were complaints also from some who re merely

offended by smoke, just as others are offended by
other things in our air. These people can simply
be ignored, because no one can expect to live in
community with others and have an environment
that is altogether to one’s aesthetic liking.

While I do not question the university’s
genuine and proper concern for health in the
community, I do have good reason to suspect that
health-based concerns were not the dominant
motive for the new policy. Colds and ﬂu are a far
more immediate and widespread health problem
than smoke, and yet the University ignored Dr.
Jane Horton’s sensible suggestion a year or so
ago that we place anti-bacterial soap in all
restrooms.

Coming now, finally, to my own individual
situation, I want to be as accessible to students as
possible. Otherwise I can do my work in my
home office, coming on campus only to met class
and keep scheduled appointments. It would be far
more desirable, however, to be in an office
adjacent to campus, perhaps some place like the
old Dutch Inn. It might make sense for the
University to rent office space off campus for
smokers’ offices. Doing so would have the further
advantage of opening up office space on campus.

For what it is worth, in my days here Wash-
ington and lee has never done anything before
now that left me with so deep a sense of alien-
ation from the community I love. You may be
assured that I am trying in every way possible to
overcome that, including writing this letter. I
have tried not to be strident and I assume you
will not take personal offense.

Louis W. Hodges
Knight Professor of Journalism

Thomsen clarifies quotations in
sorority rush story

I am writing in response to the article in last
week’s Ring-tum Phi dealing with sorority rush.
As Panhellenic Rush Chariman, I find several
problems with the article and quotes that were
attributed to me in it.

Ifind it distressing and unusual that, after one
of the most successful women’s rushes in the
history of this campus, the Phi decided to run an
article about the minority of women who fall
through the process as if it were a major problem.
Only four out of 177 women fell through the rush
process this year. It is unfortunate that anyone
falls through rush, but I do not think that the fact
that less than three percent of women who rushed
failed to receive a bid warrants a prominent front
page article that mentions nothing of the suc-
cesses of this year. Contrary to the tone of the
article, the system really does work.

I would also like to address the quote attrib-
uted to me in the article. Perhaps some of my
original words were lost in the editing mistakes
that seemed to chop the quote in half. Whatever
the cause, I feel it is necessary to address a quote
that so misrepresented the spirit of my entire
interview with the author. A huge majority,
probably 90 percent, of my statements during the
interview were focused on the positive aspects of
rush and how happy I am with the results of this
year’s process. It was a very good year for us, and
I made that very clear in the interview. I did say
that there will be glitches in any system and that
it is unfortunate, even “crappy” when girls fall
through the system. I did not say that the rush
process itself is a negative one. The comments
attributed to me in the Phi seem to be a conglom-
eration of the very few negative words I said,
taken out of context and twisted to match the
negative tone of the article. My words and the
focus of my entire interview was very positive.
Obviously, the article implied otherwise.

Obviously and unfortunately, it is too late to
go back and write about the real results of
women’s rush. But I would like to have the
opportunity to assure all of the sorority women
and freshmen with whom I worked this year that
I believe in and support the rush process.

Holly Thomsen
Panhellenic Rush Chairman, Class of 1998

@112 Ring-tum iﬂlii
always encourages
letters to the editor.

To submit your
letter, simply drop it
in our mailbox in
the University
Center by noon on
Saturday.

opinion 8: editorial  

JANUARY 19, 1998

City: ‘ilting-tum Iﬂlii

is still accepting applications for

BUSINESS MANAGER

SUBMIT YOUR RE—  
SUIVIE AND A COVER
LETTER TO THE H—//
l\/IAILBOX IN THE
UNIVERSITY ENTER.

INTERVIEWS ARE
COMING SOON. SO
APPLY TODAY!

YOU Wlll BE PAID!

Students... D

é
Join us for our Super Buffet, only

$5 .99, every Thrusday-Saturday night
and Sunday brunch. Every Monday
night students receive 10% off all
entrees. Drink specials available every
weeknight. Delivery available daily with 10% off
to all students

463-3330
(behind McDonalds)

Ea/P

JANUARY 19, 1998

RESULTS

Men’s Basketball (7-6)
Mon.: Dickinson 55
‘W&L 69
Thur. Lynchburg 41
W&L 55
Sat.: W&L 34
Rand-Mac 49
Women’s Basketball
(7-5)
Tues.: Va Wesleyan 80
(OT) W&L 76
Thur.: Rand-Mac 67
W&L 45
Sat.: W&L 65
Lynchburg 48
Sun.: Wesleyan (Ga.) 31
W&L 57
Men’s Swimming (4-4)
Tues.: Buffalo State 36
W&L 107
Sat.: Goucher 44
W&L 95
Catholic 120
W&L 82
Women’s Swimming
(6-3)
Tues.: Buffalo State 66
W&L 106
Sat.: Goucher 66
W&L 96
Catholic 129
W&L 70

AHEAD

Tuesday

Women’s Basketball -
Bridgewater,

7:00 p.m. Wamer Center

Wednesday

Men's Basketball —

at Emory & Henry,

7:30 p.m.

Women's Swimming —
at Radford, 7:00 p.m.

Thursday
Women’s Basketball —
at Guilford, 7:00 p.m.

Saturday

M&W Indoor Track —
at East Tennessee State
Wrestling —

W&L Invitational,

9:00 a.m., Warner Center

Sunday

M&W Swimming -
Emory/Johns Hopkins
at UNC—Chapel Hill,
11:00 a.m.

The

Iuankie

By
Brendan
Harrington

Men ’s Basketball:

Generals dominate
Dickinson, Lynchburg:
end winning week 2-1

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON
—:'—":’— SPORTS WRHER

The Generals went 2-1 last week as
they destroyed both the Dickinson Red
Devils and the Lynchburg Hornets by
14 points.

On Monday, the Generals dominated
Dickinson College, downing the Red
Devils 69-55 in a non-conference
matchup at the Warner Center. On
Wednesday the Generals closed out
their 6 game homestand with a 55-41
win over ODAC rival Lynchburgh Col-
lege to finish 4-2 during the homestand.

Rich Peterson led the way for the
Generals on Monday night, bouncing
back from his two-point performance
against Roanoke last Saturday to score
a game—high 14 against Dickinson.

“Rich really stepped up for us,” said
Generals head coach Kevin Moore. “ I
really think his hand injury is not a fac-
tor anymore.”

The Generals went on a 14-0 run to
take control of the game and led 24-10
midway through the ﬁrst half. The Gen-
erals led by as many as 23 points but a
late run by the Red Devils brought them
within 12 with 3:50 to play.

Senior Nate Brought led the way for
Dickinson as he poured in 16 points and
added 5 rebounds while Nikki Edmunds
added 10 points for the Red Devils. The

_ Generals ﬁnished the game with four

players in double digits, as Peterson led
the way with 14, junior point guard
Kevin Cobbin scored 13, and senior
Kelly Dyer and Freshman Will Ballard
each added 12. The loss dropped
Dickinson to 5-6.

The Generals dominated the boards,

 

outrebounding the Red Devils 44-25.
Peterson just missed a double-double
as he picked up 9 rebounds en route to
the victory.

On Wednesday night, the Generals
overcame some early shooting woes to
down ODAC rival Lynchburgh 55-41.
W&L trailed 12-4 with 9:00 left to go
in the first half before Rich Peterson
took over the game.

Peterson scored 11 points in less
than 3230, including an acrobatic steal
and layup which brought the Warner
Center crowd to its feet. Peterson ﬁn-
ished the game with l7 points and 8
rebounds for the Generals, who im-
proved to 7-5 overall and 4-2 in the
ODAC.

“The guys really came up big to-
night,” said coach Moore. “Rich was a
huge spark for us off the bench tonight.
He came up with some plays that re-
ally got us going.”

Peterson was injured early in the
year when he broke his ﬁnger and has
been coming off the bench since his
return. However, Moore expects last
year’s ODAC freshman of the year to
return to the starting lineup in the very
near future.

“It’s deﬁnitely a possibility,” com-
mented Moore. “ lt’s worked out well
with Rich coming off the bench and you
don’t want to mess with a successful
lineup. But it’s deﬁnitely something to
think about.”

The Generals led 26-21 at the half
and went on to shoot 58 percent from
the ﬁeld in the second half as Peterson
continued his superior play. Kelly Dyer
added 12 points for the Generals and

spo

 

PAGE 7

   

Eric Owsley had 9 points. C r1s
Whelan led the way for the Hornets as
he scored 14 points. The loss dropped
Lynchburgh to 4-7 overall and 2-3 in
the ODAC.

On Sunday, Randolph Macon held
the Generals to just a mere 34 points

  

ANSLEY
MILLER
POWERS
down the lane,

smoking her slow
and clumsy Georgia
Wesleyan opponent
and marking two.
The Generals
proceeded to
dismantle the
worthless
Wesleyans, 5 7-3 1,
improving their
record to 7-5.

Puoro BY 1']()I.l.lS'I'l~.'R
Ho Vl:'Y/PHO’I'() Eur/‘or

 

and W&L shoflonly 32 percent from

the ﬁeld as the Generals fell to the Yel-
low Jackets 49-34 in Ashland, Va.

The Generals trailed at the half 21-

‘ 14 before Macon extended the lead to

41-21 with 7:00 left in the game.

Randolph-Macon was 17-19 from the

 

free throw line and outrebounded the
Generals 36-32.

The win was the 20th straight vic-
tory for Randolph Macon against the
Generals.

The loss dropped the Generals to
4-3 in the ODAC and 7-6 overall.

It’s that time of year again every-
body. Time for yet another Super
Bowl, the thirty-second to be exact,
and time for me to predict who will
win the biggest game in the world.
Even though nobody will run out
and make a bet based on what I will
say, I still feel it as my duty to ac-
cess my physic powers and tell you
the next Super Bowl Champion.

Though I didn’t exactly predict
the World Series accurately, as
Cleveland didn’t even make it, I am
conﬁdent that the Super Bowl will
be a different story. I have already
successfully picked the Broncos and
Packers to get here, despite the fact
that they had to play on the road, and
I expect my momentum to carry

right on through to the Super Bowl.

Jan 22, 1984; That is the last time
the AFC won the Super Bowl. And
like the New York Rangers and the
year 1945, 1984 will soon be a year
that will be synonymous with a lost
cause. In 1984 I was 5 years old,
Ronald Reagan was president,
Washington & Lee was still all male,
and Patrick Ewirig‘ was still playing
for Georgetown. That was a long
time ago.

Will this year be the end of the
14-year stretch of NFC dominance?
Will John Elway ﬁnally win the big
one? Will Brett Favre and the Pack
dance all the way back to Wiscon-
sin with the Super Bowl Trophy?
All right, enough suspense, 1 give
you the 1998 Super Bowl Champi-
ons: The Green Bay Packers.

Though my heart will go out to
the Broncos for yet another Super
Bowl loss, you don’t bet against a
champion, and that’s exactly what
Brett Favre and the Green Bay pack-
ers. If you watched the NFC cham-
pionship game last week, the Pack-
ers man-handled the 49ers in their

own backyard. San Francisco is a
good football team. Nothing against
Denver, I love Terell Davis and I love
Elway even more, I just don’t think
they have the weapons to knock the
Pack from their throne.

The score? I still think it will be
close. The ﬁnal score will be 27-17
but the Broncos will be lurking the en-
tire game. Terell Davis will present
his usual challenge, but the not-so-
sure hands of Rod Smith and the frag-
ile Ed McCaffery will not be able to
handle the tough Green Bay second-
ary which includes all-pro safeties
Eugene Robinson and LeRoy Butler.
So color the Super Bowl green and
white and watch the cheese-heads
dance in the street as Green Bay will
make it back—to-back Super Bowl Vic-
tories.

For all those who haven’t gone to
a Generals men’s hoops game, I urge
you to come out to the Warner Center
a week from Wednesday to cheer on
the Generals against first place
Hampden—Sydney. The Generals are
off to a great start and have won more
games midway through this season
then they have the last two years com-
bined. They are 7-6 overall and 4-3
in the ODAC and they upset
1-lampden—Sydney the ﬁrst time they
met, 44-42 in early December.

Crowd support has been poor in
recent years for the Generals, though
this year’s success has brought a slight
increase in attendance. Last Wednes-
day, various fraternity pledge classes
were at the game, some with painted
faces and bare chests. One group of
pledges even danced shirtless on the
ﬂoor to a time-out musicjam. So stop
coming up with those excuses and
come out and give the Generals some
support. Both Coach Moore and the
team have earned it and you might
even have a little fun.

HOUSE FOR
RENT

4 goo/rooms’, 2 do/hrooms,
washerwyem rﬂshwasheign

gull,/%-JON £67?

29 Hook Lane
463-2556

Ask for Matt or Jason

 

 

PAGE 8

  

MILKMEN WANT WOMEN 

Sign-up for acts will be
Wednesday and Thursday in ﬁont
of the C 0-op. Entry fee is $30 per
act. First prize is $100 and a
Fancy Dress ticket,’ second prize is
$50 and a Fancy Dress ticket;
third prize is a Fancy Dress ticket.

First place acts of years past
include “Thriller" performed by
Kappa Alpha Theta pledges and a
dance mix of ABBA hits performed
by the Park View roomates,
Vanessa Hall, Erin Rosencrans,
Shelli Henderson and Nejma Petit.
Spice Girls are sure to make an
appearance this year.

‘The Rules:’

By Andrea Ewing. ‘ate Editor

Everyone discusses the social atmosphere at
Washington and Lee, but do they really know what
Ms. Manners would have to say about hooking up?
I will attempt to establish guidelines to be followed
by the ever-clueless. For those of you who still won-
der what is the proper way of scamming and then
hooking up with someone, I shall try to erase those
questions.

Tear Night might have been an experience you
either wish you could forget, or that you do not
even remember. This night has a reputation for be-
ing one of the more eventful nights on campus. The
ever present “walk of shame” can be witnessed even
more prevalently on this night than on many others.
Some other very busy weekends include Homecom-
ing, Christmas Weekend, and Fancy Dress.

Yet many still ask: What is the proper way to hook
up?

Rule #1: Getting it on in front of everyone on the
dance floor might seem cool, but get a room! Those
of us who are not as lucky as you do not want to
witness the hormone-
driven moment you are
sharing. Cg

BLUES BROTHERS ’00

The 12th annual Lip Synch
Contest is next Friday at the
Student Activities Pavilion. The
doors open at 8:30 p.m. and the
show begins at 9 p.m. Admission
is $5 at the door, or $4 ifpur-
chased in advance in front of the
Co—op. The proceeds are used to
purchse food for four local food
pantries and 10 percent is
donated to the National Multiple
Sclerosis Society.

Senior Matt O ’Brien is the
chairman of this year 's event. He
hopes SARAH will be able to top
last year ’s four-ton purchase of

 I food.

 

 

Hooking-up
at Washington and Lee

Rule #6: Scamming is encouraged. Stalking is not.

Rule #7: Vomiting is not a good prelude to a kiss.
Consider this scenario: She looks into his eyes, and
he leans down to kiss her. She then says, “Hold on,”
and bolts through the door to the bathroom.

Rule #8: There is a difference between hooking-
up and HOOKING-UP. One requires more extensive
removal of clothing and burns more calories.

Rule #9: It may seem smart to leave a party with
the person you are going to hook up with, but real-
ize that others know exactly what is going on. People
talk.

Rule #10: Avoid at all costs the urge to spend
the night in a room other than your own. The walk
the next morning can be damn cold.

Rule #11: Freshmen girls should realize that Se-
nior guys may seem interested in what you are say-
ing, but they have other things in mind. This can
hold true for males as well.

Rule #12: A friend ofthe other sex should not be
the one to hook up with. Itjust gets messy. Class or
lunch the next day could be awkward.

Rule #13: Hooking up with someone because their
name sounds cool is not the greatest reason to ini-
tiate physical contact.

Rule #14: Realize
that the person in

Rule #2: Scamming
someone takes effort
don’t just hand them
the beer. Try, if pos-
sible, to say something

No matter how many times you
hook—up with someone, you are not
dating unless specified.

whom you are so inter-
ested now could actu-
ally not really be that
hot once the beer
wears off.

witty or humorous.
This might require
thought and could be
difficult depending on your state of intoxication.

Rule #3: If you know someone is regularly hook-
ing up with another, do not call that person’s room
late on a Wednesday, Friday, or Saturday night. It
will not be appreciated.

Rule #4: No matter how many times you hook up
with someone, you are not dating unless specified.
Dating requires spending time outside of the bed-
room or the fraternity party, and spending of money.

Rule #5: Males should come up with a better line
than, “Hey honey, you want to see my CD collec-
tion?” or “I have a really cool black-light in my room.
Want to make use of it?”

Colonnade Club

77

going to hook up in
your own room, make
sure that you do not
disturb your roomates. The hanger method is rec-
ommended. Also, make sure to lock your door, oth-
ers do not want to be traumatized by viewing you in
positions they have never imagined possible.

Ifthis set of guidelines does not clue you in, trans-
fer. Washington and Lee is not for you. In truth, one
does not have to participate in the hook—up scene,
and there are many couples on campus who can at-
test to this. Just realize hooking up can be a positive
or negative experience depending on the situation.
Make sure that you do not do anything you will re-
gret, but have fun.

Rule #15: Ifyou are

abitot Humor, Opinion aniB,eviews
Word

I-lazing independeniis

By Heather McDonald _
——e Assistant News Editor

e phone rings. It’s 2 a.m. I
groggily reach for the phone,
knocking over the books on

my nightstand.

“Hello?” my voice is weak and
raspy.

“I want you to go out and get me a
pack of cigarettes. Now!”

“Yes, Independent Smith. With plea-
sure, Independent Smith.” I get out of
bed, throw on some sweats and
stumble out into the sleeting cold.
The guy at Stop-In is now my friend; I
see him constantly because of my
“errands.”

I know once I survive it, I can do
anything. I know that it will make me
stronger. I know I can be one of them.
I want to be one ofthem. I will be one
of them.

I will be an Independent.
doesn’t kill me first. _

Sometimes in the middle of the‘
night, I wake up from dreams of what I
did during the day, and I wonder if it’s
really worth it 

“Four—eyes! You little wuss! You
can’t handle being Independent!” he
shouted at me as I continued to count
aloud my push-ups. One hundred and
one  one hundred and two  I can’t
respond. To breathe is pure agony, to
speak is torture.

“Keep going until I get back. Four-
eyes. If you stop, I will know. Do you
know why, Four-eyes?”

If it

JANUARY 19, 1998

“Because you’re Independent, In-
dependent Jones?” I whispered with
all the force I could manage.

“That’s right, Four-eyes!” He
stomped out the door. When he came
back four hours later, I had passed out
on the ﬂoor. I did it until I couldn’t do
it anymore — that’s the key to being
Independent.

Tear night was bad. They took all
of us Independents to one of the side
rooms in the D-Hall. And they said,
drink. And because we are Indepen-
dent pledges, we do as we are told.

I have never drunk so much in all
my life. I was never been a big drinker
in the first place, so this was even
worse. I was so sick. I couldn’t see
straight. My head was reeling. I was
shaky, dizzy, ready to cry. My stom-
ach could not hold the vast amounts
of liquid that I was imbibing. I had no
say in what I was drinking. After six
full D-Hall glasses (straight, not on the
rocks), I cried uncle.

“Independent Miller! I don’t think
I can drink anymore! Please let me
stop! Ireached my limit! I’ve maxed
out! I’ll die!” My words were already
running together. It was really bad.
But Independent Miller said, “No.”

“If I tell you to drink, you will, Four-
Eyes. Now DRINK!” And so, I started
on my seventh glass of Hawaiian
Punch. Then they started us in on the
Country-Time. I had four—<)r was it
five—oh hell, I can’t remember. I had
a lot. The sugar in my system was

0

enough to put me in a hyperglycemic
shock. Independent Smith and Inde-
pendent Miller took me home and gave
me some water. The next day, I was
told that I was doing the Macarena to
the Spice Girls on top of a D-Hall table.

I don’t remember any of it. But I
survived it. And that’s the key to be-
ing an Independent.

They say hazing is illegal, and out-
lawed and wrong. I don’t think it’s
wrong. My Independent class and I
have grown so much tighter than be-
fore. We act as one, we grumble as
one, we do stuff as one. When some-
thing really bad happened to my Inde-
pendent sister, she could tell me what
happened — no one else —— because
we’re Independents. I can’t tellyou
what happened, because you’re not
Independent, and if you are, then you
know what I’m talking about. You
know, the night when Roach was taken
to the top of House Mountain and 
well, you know the rest.

It’s only three weeks into the
pledge season. I have another five
weeks to go. Already, my grades
have dropped, my Greek friends
have gone their own way and I’m
constantly sick because I get no
rest.

I have bruises on my wrists and
whip marks on my back. But ifl sur-
vive it, life will be grand. I’ll be what
I always wanted to be.

And that’s the key to being an
Independent.

“Raimie”
Wes-Jason Miller
Raimie-Sybil Prince

“Gladiator”

Joe -Scott McKelvey
Peter-Tim Cleary
Bill- Ryan Truax

“Impromptu”

‘ Tony—Colin Tate
Ernest-Drew Higgs
Lora-Anne Hazlett
Winifred-Erin Mullaney

“The Love Talker”

The Redhead-Susannah Carr
Bun-Justin Moncrief
Glowdie-Brittany Alshstrom
The Love Talker-Matt Clymen

One Act Play Casts Announced

 

“The Philadelphia”
Al-Josh Carpenter
Mark-Francis McWilliams
Waitress-Erika Van Helden

“Here We Are”
He-John Bubb
She-Cassie Ritter

STUDENTS NERVOUSLY
await their turn to audition
for this year ’s one-act plays.
The plays are directed by
students from Washington
and Lee ’s Theatre Depart-
ment. Every year the
department presents the
student-directed plays as a

one-act series.
HOLLISTER HOI’1§Y/PHOTO EDITOR

“Business Man’s Lunch”
Frank-Gordon Meeker

J ohn-Eric Zavolinsky
Nick-Brian Prisco
Bentley-Pat Driscoll
Waitress- Danica Oliver

svn

MONDAY *1‘? Robert E. Lee’s Founder’s Day

*1‘? 11:30 a.m. ODK Convocation “Lee: The

Marvelous Man” (adjusted class schedule) =3‘? 8
p.m. Class of ’63 lecture in Northen Audito-
rium — “Moral Education in Diverse Society:

How (if at all) should universities teach ethics?”

31¢ TUESDAY 31¢ 7 p.m. Women’s B-ball

vs. Bridgewater 33545 8 p.m. W&L music fac-
ulty & friends present “An Evening of

Gershwin” in Lenfest 3%? WEDNESDAY i>I¢

go out 51‘? THURSDAY 1555 7 :30 p.m. Con-
\ tact brings Anthony Byrant to speak on “The

Coming Demise of Cuba” in Northen i>I‘v‘= FRI-

DAY ‘PK 4 p.m. Math Colloquium: “Finite
Subgroups of Complex Matrix Groups” in
Robinson Hall Room 6 33¢ 7:30 p.m. Film
Society shows “Microcosmos” in the Trouba-
dour $1‘? 9 p.m. Lip Sync to benefit S.A.R.A.H.
in the Pavilion 51¢ Breakfast club at Chi Psi 151‘?

Easy E at Pi Phi :>I<= SATURDAY as 9 a.m.
W&L Wrestling Invitational in the Warner Cen-
ter i>I¢ 7:30 p.m. “Microcosmos” 51¢ 8 p.m.
Sonoklect Concert with Chris Taylor in Lenfest
*1‘? The Ernies at Chi Psi

By Hollister Hovey

eeez-17419 9//H1>‘oL'9\

 
   

l7!W7‘i’l7P0TE’:T eiuoe

HDW WDNIHZFUL wouw
OUIZ uﬂlé wauo 9;

I P TH19 TZENV
\ éoN1’1Nuiae?I.

      

 

Tlmrixiiein A

   

 

Tihé TEIDENT

at/main erawem
TU 13:; DEAN OF

 

  

1-Hg ¢INé*Tl/M 77H’!

1944;»; lk&i/-90N,TF-
1v 131; LA w ecH1>oL
9 iv EMT!

 

[:55

   

 
   
 

   

‘.

 

