 

)

 

Q

0112 ‘ilting-tum Iﬂlti

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsIrv’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

‘ VOLUME 101, No. 10

By Jenn Agiesta

.~ STAFF WRITER

Who is “Hot Shot?”

According to the e-mail Security Chief Mike Young sent
to the Washington and Lee University community this

3 week, he’s “a black male, early twenties, [with] an engag-
ing manner . . . He is a suspect in recent thefts of property
both on and off campus.”

The e-mail urged students to report his presence on
campus to either University Security or the Lexington po-

" lice department.

“He has no legitimate business here and we can tres-
pass him just for that,” Young said.

Hot Shot’s real name is William Hood. He is a 24-year-

. old Lexington resident with a bad reputation among
Lexingtonians young and old.

“If you close your eyes, he’ll steal the shirt off your
back,” one teenaged resident said.

Senior Doug Peddle says that Hood came to his apart-

" ment several weeks ago, and acted as if he was an old friend.

“He pretended like we’d met a thousand times before,
and it was obvious that he’d been in my apartment be-
fore,” Peddle said. “It was very unnerving. I didn’t know if
he was casing my apartment.”

Hood has never been arrested or charged for theft, yet
many ﬁnd it easy to understand Young’s warnings. He
has previously been charged in Rockbridge County with
two counts of assault and battery, possession of cocaine,

I as well as a probation violation.

Of various residents asked about him, none could ﬁnd

anything positive to say, and none wanted to go on record. '

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

  .W&L students on
y ‘Hot Shot’ hit list

According to these folks, his typical scam is subtle. “He
won’t reach into your pocket and steal your wallet,” one
woman said.

Young agreed, “He doesn’t come across as being very
threatening. He has a very engaging manner.”

Hood gets to know his victims ﬁrst. According to
Peddle, he’s very friendly and uses W&L lingo. He seems
like a nice guy, but he’s really surveying the scene and
trying to ﬁgure out what he can take. In early November, it
was reported that he took $140 from the car of a friend
giving him a ride home.

' But why the sudden notice from W&L security?

Recently, a person matching Hood’s description has
been caught wandering around the dorms and has also
been spotted entering off-campus student residences.

Young feels the friendly nature of Washington and Lee
students lulls them into a false safety. Most will let strang-
ers follow them into the dorms and leave their doors un-
locked.

“We are so nice here that we don’t challenge people
that we should,” he said.

W&L Junior Nancy Reinhart was watching television
with her roommates earlier this week when Hood wandered
into her house.

“It was scary,” she said. “We couldn’t get him to leave.”

Young advises students who live off campus to call the
police if they encounter him.

“The police already know about this guy’s activities,”
he said. “He’s just not somebody you want to get to know
real well.” 9 '

Peddle agrees.

“Be on the lookout,” he said.

‘Theater professor’s ﬁlm
makes CBS prime time

By Tarah Grant

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

Washington and Lee theater professor Tom Ziegler’s

8 “Grace and Glorie” will be the 199th presentation of the
Hallmark Hall of Fame,
television’s highly acclaimed
showcase of drama specials,
when it airs 9 p.m. Sunday on

" CBS.

Two—time Academy Award
nominee Gena Rowlands (“A
Woman Under the Influence,”
“Gloria”) and Diane Lane
(“Judge Dredd,” “Murder at
1600”) star as two completely
different women — in age,
background, ambition and at-
‘ titude — who end up forging
a life-affirming bond.

Grace (Rowlands) and
Glorie (Lane) meet when
Glorie becomes a hospice
volunteer assigned to Grace,
a feisty, ﬁercely independent
woman who. is recovering
from a broken hip. The
I women give each other help,

support — and a whole lot of
understanding and love.
Their story is a heart-tugging
~ reminder that, even in diffi-
cult times, it is always better
to embrace life than to live in

the past.
In an interview on the ﬁlm’s set, Rowlands said that she

‘ hopes “Grace and Glorie” will give the audience a “new
appreciation for the fact that we’re not alone in this world.
Loneliness is, oh, it’s the hardest thing. And you just
shouldn’t do that to yourself,” she said.

R The television version of “Grace and Glorie” is a Hall-
mark Hall of Fame production. Hallmark Hall of Fame is
television’s longest—running and most-honored series of
drama specials, having received 77 Emmy awards. The se-
ries presents four plays annually by acclaimed writers.

1 “Grace and Glorie” was born in Ziegler’s playwriting
class, Theater 220, in 1989. He asked his students to write
a scene with two characters. To provide an example, he did

the assignment, too.
“I had been knocking these two ladies around in my

'l head for a few weeks so I wrote the opening ten pages and
brought them to class,” Ziegler said. “Then every week
after that I wrote another ten pages and by the end of the
tenn I had a rough, but ﬁnished, draft.”

4, The play, which was inspired by a local woman who
was involved with Rockbridge Area Hospice, ﬁrst pre-
miered at Lexington’s Lime Kiln Theatre under the title
“Apple Dreams.” In 1996, it was produced Off Broadway
at the Laura Pells Theatre in Times Square. Starring Estelle

‘Parsons and Lucy Amez, the play had a successful run
but had to close in October because of Parsons’ prior com-

Q

Diane Lane and Gena Rowlands star as
Glorie and Grace respectively in Hallmark
Hall of Fame’s adaptation of Professor
Tom Ziegler’s play “Grace and Glorie.”

 Hallmark presents ‘Grace and Glorie’

mitment to the television show “Roseanne,” where Par-
sons played Roseanne’s mother.

Ziegler sold the ﬁlm rights to Hallmark in October of
1996 for “a pretty big chunk of money” that he had to
share with the people responsible for opening the play in
New York. Ziegler admits that,
in the end, he “did okay.”

Transforming the theater
script into a screenplay was
“exhilarating,” according to
Ziegler. This past summer
Ziegler worked for almost eight
weeks on the screenplay with
professional television writer
Grace McKeaney (“Last
Looks”). “The entire play takes
place in the single setting of a
tiny cabin with just two char-
acters,” he said. “In the ﬁlm I
was able to go anywhere, in-
troduce as many characters as
I pleased.”

The ﬁlm was shot later in the
summer near Waterbury, Conn.
Ziegler has already seen the
preview tape. “It’s very Hall-
mark and, at least thematically,
faithful to the play,” he said.

Ziegler plans to watch
Sunday’s television premiere at
his home in Glasgow. “I’ve in-
vited a bunch of friends to help
me cheer and jeer,” he said.

MONDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1998

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

IT’S BEGINNING TO LOOK A LOT LIKE CHRISTMAS... Girls Scouts march in the Lexing-
ton Christmas Parade, which was held Friday, December 4.

Lex crime wave ebbs

By Jenn Agiesta

STA FF WRITER

A November surge in CD and car stereo thefts seems to
be coming to an end, according to Lexington’s Chief of
Police Bruce Beard.

An investigation into the November thefts is ongoing
and the police have several suspects.

“It started a little bit before the end of October,” Beard
said. “Picked up in November, and it seems to have died
down now:” '

The crime wave began over Halloween weekend. Two
thefts on the Washington and Lee University campus
were reported to police that weekend, one in Graham-
Lees Dormitory, the other at the Lambda Chi Alpha house.
On Nov. 1, W&L freshman Amy Burke had her discman
and CDs stolen from the ﬁrst floor smoking lounge of the
library.

“They were in my bag underneath my carrel,” Burke
said. “Someone had to have seen me using it, and waited
until 1 left.”

Burke’s theft was not reported to police. Instead, she
turned over lists of CDs to local stores that accept used
CDs, in the hoped that they might be returned. They have
not yet turned up.

Unreported incidents make it harder for police or secu-
rity to ﬁnd the culprits.

“I’ve heard that a lot of students have had CD’s stolen,
but not all of them have been reported,” Mike Young, W&L
Chief of Security said. “If they don’t report it, I can’t do
anything.”

Young feels certain that whoever did this is not a
W&L student. This theory is supported by the in-
creased number of thefts off campus as well. Several
cars were robbed in the parking lot of Stonewall Jack-
son Hospital during mid-November, another was robbed
while parked on the street. Car stereos and CD’s were
taken in these robberies.

Beard hopes that someone will be caught in connection
with these thefts.

“The investigation is moving along, and we have sev-
eral suspects,” Beard said.

Racking up the tickets

 

By Eszter Pados

STAFF WRITER

With construction ofa new,park-
ing garage looming, Johnny Bubb,
like many off-campus Washington
and Lee students, faced a parking
problem at the beginning of the
school year.

He was not sure if he would be
able to park his truck in the Corral or
if he would have to ﬁnd his own park-
ing. Until the problem was resolved,
about a week after his arrival at
school, Bubb parked in the lot be-
hind his apartment. A lot in which
all the spots are either reserved or
have two hour time limits. So, Bubb
faced yet another parking problem:
tickets.

“I would go to class or to eat,
wherever, and come back to tickets
on my car, constantly,” Bubb said.
“The most I got in one day was four.”

Bubb built up a stack of seven or
eight tickets, and did not pay them.
He assumed that the late notices had
been sent to his parents, and that
they had taken care of the tickets.
He never received any notiﬁcation
of additional ﬁnes at his Lexington
address. As a result, the tickets were
unpaid for so long that a subpoena
was issued, and he had to go before
ajudge.

The subpoena was not mailed to
him, however. Instead, the police
department and W&L security
searched for him. The police showed
up at his fraternity house, in his pro-

fessors’ offices and talked to his
friends. Bubb ﬁnally called security,
and went to court.

Judge Joseph E. Hess, who
handles all parking ticket problems,
brought Bubb’s fine down to the
minimum after hearing his story.
Miscommunication by the police led
to a breakdown of procedure, and
saved Bubb a lot of money.

The problem is that Bubb’s situa-
tion is not a singular one. In the
month ofNovember, eight W&L stu-
dents were arrested for non-payment
of parking ﬁnes. Most were sought
by the police working with univer-
sity security, and led to a court ap-
pearance. Chief of Security Mike

See TICKETS, Page 2

W&L ‘Bulgarians’ impress model UN

By Eszter Pados

STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee University was one of 34 schools
to attend the annual Southern Regional Model United
Nations in Atlanta a few weeks. As delegates representing
Bulgaria, ﬁve members of W&L’s Foreign Affairs Club “did
a spectacular job,” senior club member Lizzie Perkins said.

“We were a tiny delegation compared to most schools,’
Perkins said. “But despite this, we as a team and a school
were recognized.”

Not only did W&L [Bulgaria] stand out in individual
committees, but also in the three-day conference at large.

‘The Secretary General [Mike Richardson] did indeed
comment on our performance indicating, that we did do a
greatjob,” Perkins said. “Not to be boastful, but we were
impressive.” Richardson personally requested that W&L
return next year, with a larger delegation if possible.

The delegates left Nov. 18, fully informed about Bulgar-
ian foreign-policy, ready to act and think as Bulgarian del-
egates. According to Perkins, the issues that they ad-
dressed at the conference varied from nuclear proliferation
to peaceful uses of outer space.

“I was in the World Trade Organizations and we dealt
with the recent telecommunications treaty and with intel-
lectual property,” Perkins said. “Each [of the ﬁve] del-
egates prepared for three potential topics to debate within

pare with a brieﬁng seminar on Bulgaria and Internet links,”
Perkins said. “He was key in our overall performance.”
Giannakos taught at the American University in Bul-

the committees ofthe UN.”

The club had three choices for
countries to represent. This year, the
club picked India, England and Bul-
garia. The ideas were sent in to the
MUN coordinator in Atlanta, and he
assigned Bulgaria to the club.

“The assignment depends on how
many people you have in a group,”
William Overbaugh, senior club mem-
ber said, “We only have ﬁve, so we
got a smaller country.”

Club members did not have any for-
mal instruction prior to departure, but
professor Symeon S. Giannakos, vis-
iting associate professor of politics at
W&L was a great asset to the club.

‘‘I must give Professor Giannakos
tremendous credit for helping us pre-

See UN, Page 2

December 7, 1998
OPINION:

aren’t all bad

W&LIFE:

SPORTS:

@112 ﬁling-tum iﬁlti

X-mas spirit, Senior does student poll, frats

Christmas shopping in Lex, and got Stress?

250th Basketball: Boys rule, girls...

PAGE 3&4

PAGES 5, 6, 7

PAGES 8&9

 

 

PAGE 5 f

N

@112 iﬁing-tum lﬂhi

EWS

DECEMBER 7, 1998

    

Photo by Hollister Hovey/Executive Eitor

Professor Ellen Mayock recites a Spanish
poem at “La Noche de Poesia,” held at the
Ruse last Tuesday.

UN

continued from page 1

garia, and he shared his knowledge
about Bulgarian foreign policy with
club members, Overbaugh said.

Furthermore, the club received fi-
nancial support from both Laurent
Boetsch, dean of the college, and
Larry C. Peppers, dean of the Will-
iams School, while William
Klingelhofer, director of International
Education, served as an advocate for
the group.

“This aid was crucial as the trip is
not inexpensive,” Perkins said. “For
the upcoming Harvard Conference we
will again need much financial assis-
tance.”

Upon their return on Nov. 22, the
ﬁve participants felt good about their
performance. Overbaugh and Perkins
both said that the delegates were very
well prepared, but the only disadvan-

tage they had is that, while other
schools have courses designed to pre-
pare students for events like the MUN,
W&L only has a club.

Founded in 1994, the Foriegn Af-
fairs Club is a recent addition to the
university. The members now have a
chance to attend prestigious events
such as the SRMUN, which is the most
prestigious MUN in the South.

Plans for the future include the up-
coming Harvard Conference in Febru-
ary. According to Overbaugh, the club
took part in the SRMUN to be better
prepared for the MUN at Harvard.
Similar to the SRMUN, the event at
Harvard is the most prestigious MUN
in the Northeast, Overbaugh said. The
events are held every year, and most
club members have been to at least
one before, Overbaugh said.

“We also hope to go to an intema-
tional conference in the near future,”
Perkins said, “but that would require
strong financial support. The MUN is
a large undertaking, but thoroughly
worth it in the end!”

Perkins said that a higher number
of delegates at future events would
qualify W&L students to win awards
and trips to international conferences.
For example, the SRMUN is sponsor-
ing a team comprised often outstand-
ing schools that choose one represen-
tative. They will send them to Den
Haag, Netherlands in the spring of next
year, she said.

“What a way to let W&L prove it-
self to the world!”

The Foreign Affairs club meets
once a week on Tuesdays at 9 p.m, in
room 8 of Newcomb Hall.

TICKETS

continued from page 1

Young feels that security helping the police is not a
problem.

“We assist the police department whenever we can,”
he said. “We depend upon the police to help us when we
need them.”

Chief of Police Bruce Beard outlined nonnal procedure
for an unpaid parking ticket. If the ticket is not paid within
seven days of the issue date, a late notice is mailed. If
there is no response to the late notice, a subpoena is is-
sued for the violator’s arrest, and a court appearance fol-
lows. Judge Hess nonnally enforces the cost of the ticket(s),
whatever late ﬁnes were assessed, and court costs.

Young said, “A lot of times our students neglect retum-
ing phone calls from the Police Department for whatever
reason, and a lot of the time, we are able to convince them
that it is in their best interest to contact the police.”

Security’s facilitation of the police procedures seems
unlikely to stop anytime soon. Students who do not pay

their parking tickets should not necessarily expect a visit.

from your friendly neighborhood officer, but, be warned,
they know where you live.

  

E-mail General Notes to 
i@wlu:edu '! p

 

Turn off your computer

University Computing is asking for assistance from all
members of the Washington and Lee community in main-
taining network reliability in the coming weeks. As many
are aware, the current network hardware can keep track of
no more that 1,024 computers at a time. This causes prob-
lems because there are more than 2,000 computers con-
nected to the ca mpus network. The ever—increasing num-
ber of networked computers causes frequent networking
interruptions on a large scale, requiring reboots of the net-
working hardware. Each reboot interrupts all network con-
nections campus-wide for a period of as much as thirty
minutes, which disrupts everyone’s work.

Unfortunately, the problem will only worsen as use in-
creases leading up to exams. To help avoid the problem,
students are asked to turn off their computers when they
go to class, and faculty and staff should shut down their
computers when they leave for the day. Please note that
computers must actually be turned off to release their place
in the overloaded memory of the network hardware. UC
hopes that this measure will avoid excessive network down-

time in the weeks to come, Foryfurther details, please see‘:
http://www.wll1;le,di1/cornppting/news/netl 198.wluf  ‘ 

' l

     

Talk about alcohol on campus

Attend an On Campus Talking About Alcohol program
Wednesday from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. in room 1 14 of the Univer-
sity Center. ’

OCTAA teaches students how alcohol affects their
body based on quantity/frequency choices. Attendees will
learn to estimate their biological risks for alcohol related
problems and to make low-risk drinking choices.

Call the Health Education Office at 462-4501 to sign-up
for this nonjudgmental, research-based program.

Lee Chapel holds Candlelight service

Washington and Lee University's annual Christmas
Candlelight Service will be held Thursday at 8 p.m. in Lee
Chapel. The public is invited to attend.

The Service of Nine Lessons and Carols is an ancient
form of corporate worship during the Christmas season.
The prayers, lessons and hymns tell the story of sacred
history from the Creation to the Incarnation.

Music for the traditional service will be provided by the
University Chamber Singers, conducted by Gordon Spice,
W&L professor of music. Timothy Gaylard, W&L profes-
sor of music, will be the organist for the service and, as is
customary, readers for the service will be chosen from the
University community. Thomas Litzenburg Jr., acting uni-
versity chaplain will preside over the service.

The annual Christmas Candlelight Service is sponsored
by the University Federation, a nondenominational stu-

dent group that sponsors religious and,.community.vqlun-,

teer"serVlceaict'rvitie_s;, ’ ' *  V _ ‘_” t~ rt

Olson Exhibit at Blue Heron

Kathleen Olson-Janjic, associate professor of art at
W&L, will have her work exhibited at the Blue Heron Cafe
on East Washington Street starting Dec. 13.

The paintings are based on Olson-Janjic’s trip to Greece.
The public is invited to an opening reception Sunday from 5
p.m. to 7pm. ‘

D-hall serves edible study aids

Exam monotony breakers for d—hall patrons will be
served in Evans Dining Hall Dec. 1 1-16. The treats will add
a little extra zip to regular d—hall meals, and are guaranteed
to relieve some of the stress of studying. I

The Snack Bar will also help alleviate the monotony of
studying by offering free coffee and soft drinks. The spe-
cial study aids will be served from 6 p.m. until closing each
night preceding an exam day.

Croatian writer lectures at W&L

Dubravka Ugresic, a Croatian writer will present a lec-
ture entitled “The Culture of Gingerbread Hearts” today at
6 p.m. in Washington and Lee’s duPont Auditorium.

Ugresic is a writer of international acclaim. Four of her books
have been translated into English, most recently “The Mu-
seum of Unconditional Surrender” and “The Culture of Lies.”

Ugresic has been one of the brave voices who dared to
denounce the political and cultural situation in present-
day Croatia. As a result, she was forced to leave Croatia.

 Since ‘I 993, she-has been living in exile in Amsterdamand -iv

frequently lecti1res“initheTllnited States‘. 5.. I  . ‘.5   7..

D-hall dishes out Midnight Breakfast

One of the most popular Dining Service events of the
year is fast approaching. The annual Midnight Breakfast
willl be held in the Evans Dining Hall next Tuesday 1 1 p.m.
to 12:15 a.m. Faculty members will be on hand to dish up
your favorite breakfast entree.

The breakfast is open to all W&L students. For meal
plan holders, the cost is one meal, for University Card hold-
ers the cost is $4 and the cash price is $5.

Buffet dinner takes students to NY

Evans Dining Hall will be transformed into New York
City for the Dining Service’s annual holiday buffet. The
hustle and bustle of the streets, the elaborate decorations
in the store windows and the giant tree at Rockefeller Cen-
ter will all be part of the display.

Southern Comfort and Jubilee will perform carols for
diners. The nationally recognized gospel group Karis will
also appear. l

The buffet will include roast rack of lamb, braised sir-
loin of beef, breast of duckling paulette, red pesto couscous
with shallots, crab meat salads, marinated hearts of palm
and gounnet bread.

This buffet dinner menu will be submitted to the Na-
tional Association of College and University Food Ser-
vices for an award in the annual Horton Dining Awards.
W&L’s 1997 Holiday Dinner won Second Place for Theme
Dinner for a small university or college in this national
contest.I(_

.<._.:'u1-:s!:.!_ 4!"; H5» .‘r,I.~ivl.l t .
..».\»-5&1 .....,.A ..,4

-. ,.y ‘4 .. ... ._,.3. ,.»...» .. ....,.‘ ......u

      
 

Fat-Burning Cardiovascular Equip.

Aver

week.

That's ver"25% off
College Normal Rates

OMEGA FITNESS

Expansion Extravaganza
LAST CHANCE

  

Energizing Aerobics

Give Yourself he Gift of Health

*Friendly professional staff
*Fat burning cardiovascular

Steppers, Bikes, Rowers,
Precor X-Trainer + NUSTEP

* Instruction by a personal trainer

equipment. Including: Treadmills,

Your 24 Month Membership Includes:

*Individualized programs (beginners to advanced)
*Open 7 days per week

*Over 20 energizing aerobic classes per week
*Exceptional1y clean facility

*and much, much more...

*Muscle building free weights + hammer strength

.1/was G. ievéorm us'aA.nv
wAsHr~eroN & use uwvsnsirv
LEXINGTON. VA 24450

ti "3

 - Members%ips Le
},Offer Expires Mon 12/14/98

CALL 463-6054

NOW!

3

' A

 

I

 

DECEMBER 7, 1998

 2 ﬁling-tum lﬁhi ‘

 

PAGE 3

It’s the most
wonderful time
of the year

I start listening to Christmas music as soon as the trick-
or-treaters disappear. Jingle Cats is my favorite Christmas
CD. A Siamese, a tabby and a calico whaling out “Up on
the Rooftop” always makes me chuckle. Well, someone
pass the plum pudding. It’s time to hang the stockings
and pick out that perfect Christmas tree.

(Usually I go with my dad to pick out the Christmas
tree. We always get the best one on the lot. Dad calls the
place, asking when they are getting fresh shipments. We
bring a knife to cut the fresh ones open ourselves. Some-
times the service can leave much to be desired. Don’t
worry, Dad brings gloves so we don’t get sap on our
hands. Last year we went the Saturday after Thanksgiv-
ing, but this year I
went to do research
at the library so that
I would be ﬁnished
with all my work
and enjoy one ﬁnal
evening of the New
Orleans social scene. Well, I wish I had gone with paw to
get a tree. Thinking about it, the whole excursion reveals
typical family hostilities. The two of us yell awful ob-
scenities at one another’s choice in tannenbaums. How
we ever leave in agreement completely eludes me. Then
when we ﬁnally get home, we each claim total responsibil-
ity for the wonderful choice, unless someone notices a
dreaded “hole” in the foliage, then we pin the blame on
the other guy. “You should have seen the tree Dad wanted.
You remember Charlie Brown’s Christmas tree, a real
LOSER.” Or, “I thought I raised my son to have better
taste in trees. Sometime children really have a way of break-
ing a father’s heart.” I won’t even get into the disputes
over decorating the damn thing. Well, maybe just a little.
You know that ornament you made in kindergarten with
your beautiful face on it. It goes in the front! No matter
what the old man says. And when from his comfortable
chair in the other room Dad repeatedly warns my brother,
Doug, to put one piece of tinsel on the tree at a time,
aluminum icicles ﬂy through the house in rebellion. In
any case, I wish I had gone with him this year, and I really
miss the decorating festivities. Mom serves eggnog.)

Well, the hip hop happiest season of all is again upon
us. I am very excited, I must say. This glorious season
always gives me warm, toasty feelings of hope, love and
joy. (Maybe the toasty feeling comes from the fact that in
third grade, I made the words “hope,” “love” and “joy”

3‘-,,orf His Rocker
jM..f?i Stephen Pesoe ’O1

  
 

out of dough. Then ve put them in the oven and toasted
them until golden brown. Mom still hangs them in the
kitchen at this time of year. At least, she better. Mrs.
Kilgarlen always had the best craft ideas. We decorated
the words with red and green ribbons. They are pretty.)
Oh well, I promise to stop digressing. I hope everyone
enjoys this great time of year, a true festival of lights and
excitement. Let the spirits past, present, future or the ones
added to that heavenly eggnog, move you. Wandering
aimlessly around campus (yep, I’m that guy), I noticed
some fantastic decorations. Lights and holly and wreaths
and bows — well HO HO HO, on Dasher, on Dancer, slap
me silly and call me Rudolph. The sensation of itty-bitty
snowmen running up and down my spine rushed upon
me.
The D-hall’s midnight breakfast study break during
exam week ranks high on the list of consolations for not
being home for the holidays. But the Lee House’s holiday
decorations remain the greatest consolation. I feel obliged
to compliment the Elrods and all involved in the decora-
tion process foru a wonderful, heart-warming job. And to
all those students in the dorms, seeing a luminescent glow
of holiday spirit emanating from windows touches my
foolish heart. I noticed some students took the time to

STAFF EDITORIAL



C)

deck Gaines Hall with boughs of all sorts — toy soldiers,
stained glass, chloroﬂuorocarbons snow.
While the seasonal joys of Washington and Lee prove

quite acceptable,
(I

there truly is no
Lights and holly

place like home for
the holidays. In
and wreaths and

less than two

geeks-g11"Cehb?°tk bows — well HO
ome. n I'lS —

mas morning, I’ll HO H09 on

compliment Dad’s Dasher, on

choice of a tree.
He’ ll tell me what a
great job I did deco-
rating it. We’ll both
tell Doug how the

Dancer, slap me
silly and call me
tinsel really adds

Rudolph.
J}
the ﬁnal sparkling

touch to the masterpiece. And everyone praises Mom’s
fabulous Christmas cookies. ~ ,

Well, I’m going to decorate a gingerbread house.
Merry Christmas everyone. Happy Holidays, and Sea-
sons Greetings.

Wake up and smell the coffee, not the Kahlua

‘Twas the night before Christmas
And all through the land

All the students were merry
And too drunk to stand.

They were screaming at SAE
While Betas passed out

And the bottles were shattering
On the ﬂoor of Phi Kap’ s house.

Let us make a simple connection for
those of you who just won’t get it: alco-
hol impairs judgement. Hence, drunk
people do stupid things. Most of the time,
it’s funny to laugh about how you spent
the night on intimate terms with the toilet
talking to monsters, but how many of us
wake up The Morning After in shame?

How about some facts: Of the multiple
cases before the SJC every year, the ma-
jority are alcohol related. One of the two
rape cases tried before the SFHB last year
was alcohol related. At least three of the
withdrawals in the face of an EC hearing
during the last three years have been al-
cohol related. How many of you can agree
that getting kicked out of school over some
beef j erky you were too drunk to pay for
is stupid? But of course it wasn’t his fault,

TALKbacl<:: What do you want from Santa this year?

 

“A GPA abovea2.0thistetm.”

«—-James Person ’0l~

 

because he was drunk. Out of all the lame
excuses we use to justify our asinine ac-
tions, how many times does that one see
daylight?

The fact is that the student body of
Washington and Lee just won’t leam. We
haven’t learned one damn thing from the
deaths of Jack Bowden and David Thomp-
son. Wejust toasted them the ﬁrst Friday
night after we put them in the ground.
They are dead. And we’d give a million to
one odds that they wouldn’t be if they
hadn’t had anything to drink on the nights
of their respective deaths.

An alumnus just sent a disturbing let-
ter to the editors of both papers, detailing
the death of his alcoholic friend, and trac-
ing the beginning of the problem back to
Washington and Lee University. We shake
our heads, and say how tragic, and go
out and get drink a bottle of Jim Beam in
his name.

When will we consider the possible
consequences of our actions? When will
this stop being something that happens to
other people, and become our turn? Our
turn to get arrested, our turn to have a
terrible feeling about what might have hap-
pened the night before, our turn to die?

When it is your turn, be sure to a lot

“Two and a half weeks of sleep.”

~——Maggie Fagan ’02

about how you’re a victim, and how it
wasn’t your fault because you were
drunk. Everybody will carejust as much
as they have in the past.

The solution is not to call for an end to
drinking, and it certainly isn’t BYOB
(cheers to the brain trust that came up
with that one). While the administration
gets up and preaches every year on
Parent’s Weekend about what a big prob-
lem alcohol is and details all the noble
things being done to combat it, the ad-
ministration hasn’t done anything. It has
not attacked the problem in an effective
manner, and the chances that it’ll get a
clue anytime soon are, um, dubious at
best.

But the fact remains that it’s not nec-
essarily a problem of the administration.
There’s a major element that has to come
from the student body. After all, there’s
only so much of the way that Johnny and
Dave can hold my hand before I have to
make my own decisions. And then comes
the hard part: accepting responsibility for
them.

It’s just not that hard to drink respon-
sibly, W&L. Cut the apathetic alcoholic
bullshit and get a clue. You can’t ﬁnd your
honor in your alcohol.

“Free tuition.”

-——Wade Hess ’02

I  ‘iesrsircgreiy,
 KennethHoeffeI '

“A TV and VCR for my dorm room.”

—Alana Ovsepian ’02

Fraternities

get a bad rap 

Today I take a break from my self-proclaimed moniker
and instead focus on the positive aspects of the fraternity
system, integral part of life here at W&L.

The prevalence of the Greek system was something I
worried about when I applied to this school. I saw fratemi-
ties as bastions of booze, debauchery and altogether a
poor investment of money and time. I dreaded the pres-
sure to join one and the possible social stigma if I decided
not to.

It didn’t take me long on campus, however, to change
my mind. Fraternities here are what they were originally
meant to be: groups of guys who share a brotherhood that
goes beyond alcohol or the opposite sex. Time after time I

hear stories about pledge classes vacationing together,_

house mothers making
cookies, and a serious,
old-fashioned loyalty
to fellow frat brothers.
The little, friendly in-
tricacies of fraternity
life seldom get pub-
lished; granted, it would be a difﬁcult task. The positive
aspects far outweigh the negative ones, however.

Most houses perform some service work at various
points during the academic year. Campus publications do
the frats a great disservice by not reporting them. Both
Chi Psi and Sigma Nu have annual blood drives. Chi Psi
and Phi Delta Theta, along with two sororities, helped clean
up Goshen Pass. Kappa Sigma and Phi Kappa Psi, once
again along with two sororities, sponsored a barn dance
with Catholic Campus Ministry and Habitat for Humanity;
proceeds went to the Habitat’s building fund. Out of curi-
osity, who remembers this? Even though I knew I would
be writing this article weeks ago, I really had to dig to ﬁnd
this information.

Time after time, the student body and the administra-
tion have put the negative aspects of fraternity life under a
ridiculously powerful microscope. True, shorter, more civil
pledging periods and more individual responsibility on the
part of every student would help, but these people for-
get that 130 years of fraternity tradition simply don’t
evaporate overnight. I have full conﬁdence that the
majority of houses are trying to adjust accordingly.
Besides, anyone stupid enough not to say no and al-
low his genitals to be electro-shocked deserves any
negative feedback he might get. Several people are being
punished for the actions of a few irresponsible others,
and frankly, that sucks. Given no other option, these
things will change; however, a degree of patience is re-
quired.

What members of the W&L community must ask them-
selves before they open their mouths regarding the Greek
system is this: Am I actually accomplishing anything by
saying this, or merely shooting my mouth off? Will the
way in which I present this information be received in a
positive manner? The Greek system might need to
change, but the best way to do that is a change of
attitude among individual students, not ridiculous sanc-
tions that are inconsistent with General Lee’s idea of a
value-based (not rule-based) community. Only when this
occurs will there be any tangible results.

 

Executive Editors
News Editors
W&Life Editors
Opinions Editors
Sports Editors

Last Word Editor
Copy Editors

@112 ‘tiling-tum ilﬂlti j

Tarah Grant
Hollister Hovey
Polly Doig

John Stewart
Ginger Phillips
Erica Prosser
Stephanie Bianco
Stephen Pesce

Frances Groberg

Kevin McManemin
Sarah Meldrum

  

Meredith Mlynar
Emily Barnes
Scott Cameron
Tom Wadlow
Cliff Woolley

Photo Editors

Online Editor
Production Assistant

Jason Williams
Matt Lorber
Lionel Brown

Business Manager
Advertising Directors
Circulation Director

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editors, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “Talkback” do not
reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington. VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: p/1i@wlu.edu
http.'//wIu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

 

 

PAGE 4

 2 ﬂing-tum lﬂhi

 

DECEMBER 7, 1998

Senior launches

review of student

government  

Student governance at Wash-
ington and Lee University has al-
ways-proven to be an interesting

 

 

While I was unable to make
enough time to attain his assis-
tance for interpreting my poll re-

phenomena. sults, I do be-
Steeped in tra- lieve that my
dition,’ often  5 results should
cited as one of ~ . , S be considered
the unique  Nkﬁbmak 99 more accurate
characteristics than most of

of our univer-
sity, our system has, until recently,

suffered ﬁ'om an attitude of benign _

neglect. So long as it didn’t inter-
fere with or disrupt the lives of “the
most contented student body in
the nation,” most students were
more than happy to ignore it.

Until recently.

Within the last several years, a
quiet revolution of sorts has taken
place within our governing insti-
tutions. While students generally
may have been apathetic toward
the changes, you may recall some
of the more drastic changes: the
Student Conduct Committee
changed’ to the Student Judicial
Council, the University Hazing
Board was created, fraternity rush

. moved to the whiter term despite

the nearly _unanimous opposition
of Greek students and so on.
Noticing that the judicial sys-

' tern once heralded for the simplic- I

ity and effectiveness of the “single
sanction” had become far too com-
plicated, the Board of Trustees
“took action to examine the prob-
lem and make recommendations
for solving it. A preliminary re-
port was issued, and now, after
some two years of meetings, a com-

mission is irearing the completion «

of its work. Within a few months a
ﬁnal report will be sent to the Stu-
dent Affairs Committee and the fac-
' ulty, and another minor revolution
. may take place.
These recommendations, how-
, ever, will only pertain to the stu-
dent judicial system; any critical
review of the larger governing
structure must necessarily come
from the general student body.
Having been an active participant
in student government for the last
four years, and having become
somewhat disaffected in the pro-
cess, I began to wonder whether
or not now might not be the time
to make such a review. After all, if
we’ll be altering such an important
aspect of our system as the judi-
cial process, might not the whole
thing be in need of reform?

As I say, I’ve been very active
in student government —— work-
ing on the White Book Review
Committee, serving on the Student
Judicial Council and attending
SAC meetings and occasional

open forums. Despite this experi- .

ence, I knew that my opinions alone
would be worthless if contrary to
the general student opinion.

With this in mind, I proposed
the idea of holding a student body
convention. I abandoned the idea
once convinced that it would not
be practical. Lacking any other
means of canvassing a large num-
ber of students, I turned to the
notion of taking a poll.

I remain ﬁilly aware of the criti-
cism that inevitably follows when
someone conducts a poll. The
sample size may be too small or
unrepresentative, or the questions
may be biased. I tried to limit these
inevitable objections by conduct-
ing the poll as responsibly as I
could. I obtained a randomly se-
lected list of students from the reg-
istrar and conferred with Profes-
sor Robert McAhren , an expert in
polling.

A the polls con-
ducted on campus. I include a sec-
tion detailing my methods at the
end of this article.

The 13 questions I chose can
be divided into three categories:
those that seek to gauge how fa-
miliar students are with our cur-
rent govemment (questions 1, 2, 3
and 4), those that try to determine
how conﬁdent they are in the sys-
tem (questions 5, 7, 8 and 9), and

3 those that reflect how willing stu-

dents would be to consider alter-
natives to the current govemm ent
(questions 6, 30, 1 1, 12 and 13).

I was surprised by a number of

A the results, but a few general trends

emerged. First of all, students are
not at all familiar with the current
system. The majority cannot
name any of the Big Five Ofﬁcers,
and practically none have read the
Student Body Constitution.

Secondly, students are fairly ,

conﬁdent in the major judicial
boards. Although I wonder what
the source of this conﬁdence is,
given how little we collectively
know about our system, I was not
surprised at this result.

Finally, students are very will-
ing to consider some significant

3 changes to our current plan —- es-

pecially if they are viewed as in-
creasing the democratic nature of
our system.

The difficulty lies in the fact
that, whereas students are willing
to consider changes in theory,

» there may not be any particular al-

temative which could gain the
support of a majority.

Nevertheless, I plan to set forth ‘

several amendments to the Stu-
dent Body Constitution within the
next few weeks that will attempt to
ﬁx what I view as the most glaring
flaws to the current system. It
seems that something must be
done with that document, if only
for the fact that it has seriously
fallen behind the times (it still re-
fers to the SCC, for example).

I understand that there is a con-
siderable amount of institutional
inertia which will oppose any
change to the status quo, but I be-
lieve that, should you approach
these proposals with an open
mind, most of them will appeal to
your common sense.

, I also want to make it clear that
I have no hope for personal gain
from this process. l’1l be graduat-
ing in a few months and, having
already incurred the indemnity of
several student leaders, I have
even considered dropping the
matter altogether. I continue for
the sole reason that I believe much
can be done to improve our uni-
versity (at least as far as student
government is concerned), and as
an elected officer it is my duty not
to ignore this fact.

I hope that you find the results

_ of my poll to be as thought-provok-

ing as I have. I encourage you to
watch this paper in the next sev-
eral weeks to learn the reasoning
behind my positions, and also to
watch for the signs that will ad-
vertise the student body referenda
by which we will determine, once
and for all, what the student body
government should be.

 

Methodology:

I conducted the poll by telephone with the assistance ofa fellow stu-
dent, calling students at all hours ofthe day trying to get their responses.
Of the 80 undergraduates originally selected by the registrar, I polled 69.
Ofthe 30 law students, I spoke with 24.

If there was a student who was unavailable (either out of the country or
with an unlisted phone number), I substituted the student of the same
gender and class year closest to the original name in the student directory.

Question 1: Can you name the Big Five Officers? (Here I listed
the office, and waited to see if the student could name the officer.)

None Correct: Undergrad— 55.1% Law- 37.5%

One Correct: U— 25% L— 45.8%

Two Correct: U- 10.1% L- 12.5%

Three Correct: U- 5.8% L- 8.3%

Four Correct: U— 2.9% L- 0.0%

Five Correct: U- 2.9% L- 0.0%

General Observation: Beth Formidoni is the most well-known of the ofﬁc—
ers, followed by Greta Richter. Practically none of the students can name the
EC and SJC Secretaries.

Question 2: Can you name your class officers, EC representa-
tives, and SJC justice? (Although I didn’t ask the students to name
these people Individually, I was curious to see ifthey were more familiar
with their class officers than with the school-wide ofﬁcers).

Yes: U- 47.8% L- 70.8%

No: U- 52.2% L- 29.2%

General Observation: Law students and freshmen were most likely to recall
their ofﬁcers. My explanation‘? Law students have smaller classes, and are
more likely to know their ofﬁcers, while freshmen elected their ofﬁcers only a
few weeks ago.

Question 3: Have you read any of the following?

 Undergraduate I Law

um

 

85.5 83.3

 

Constitution White Book Blue Book of Student
of the Student of the the Student Handbook
Body Executive Judicial
3 Committee Council

General Observation: Despite the fact that the EC tries to ensure that ev-
eryone reads the White Book (remember the pledge you signed in your first
year?), a surprisingly large number have not. Students cite the fact that the
Handbook is available every year during matriculation for their familiarity with
that document.

Question 4: Overall, do you consider yourself well-informed
about current student government issues? (I did not specify any
particular Issue, relying on the student’s own estimation of his or her
knowledge.)

Yes: U- 29% L- 29.2%

No: U—71%L- 70.8% .

General Observation: Students at Washington and Lee don’t know much
about the issues their leaders face. Whether this is through a lack of commu-
nication on behalf of the leaders or a lack of interest from students, I can not
judge.

Question 5: How effective do you think our current student gov-
ernment is in representing general student opinion to the admin-
istration? (Here I asked the students to rate their answers on a scale of
1-5, 1 being Not Effective, 3 being Neutral, and 5 being Completely Effec-
tive.)

Not Effective: U- 2.9% L- 0.0%

Barely Effective: U- 8.7% L- 8.3%

Neutral/No Opinion: U— 42% L- 58.3%

Somewhat Effective: U- 44.9% L- 33.3%

Completely Effective: U- 1 .4% L- 0.0%

General Observation: Students don’t seem to have strong opinions about
how effective our current leaders are at representing student interests to the
administration, but if they do have an opinion, it tends to be positive.

Question 6: Would you be willing to support a ballot initiative
to reorganize our current system of government if such a reorga-
nization made it more reflective of the general student body’s
views? (Here I didn’t specify any particular Initiative, but was curious to
see if students were willing to consider a change. Despite the yes/no
nature of the question, some students refused to form an opinion without
more Information.)

Yes: U- 85.5% L- 83.3%

No: U- 8.7% L- 0.0%

No Opinion/Need More Info: U-5.8% L-16.7%

General Observation: Although students are generally conﬁdent in their
government, they are very interested in proposals that would make it more
responsive to student interests.

Question 7: How confident are you in the ability of the EC to
adjudicate honor violations? (Here I asked students to rate their
conﬁdence on a scale of 1-5, 1 being Not Confident, 3 being Neutral, 5
being Very Conﬁdent.)

Not Conﬁdent: U— 1.4% L- 0.0%

Barely Conﬁdent: U— 14.5% L- 12.5%

Neutral/No Opinion: U— 10.1% L- 12.5%

Somewhat Conﬁdent: U— 39.1% L— 58.3%

Very Conﬁdent: U- 34.8% L- 16.7%

General Observation: Undergraduates have stronger feelings about the
EC on both extremes than do Law students.

Student government at W&L:

TIME FOR
REFORM?

Question 8: How confident are you in the ability of the SJC to
adjudicate conduct violations? (Here I used the same answer scale
as in question 7).

Not Confident: U— 2.9% L- 0.0%

Barely Conﬁdent: U- 8.7% L- 16.7%

Neutral/No Opinion: U- 21.7% L— 41.7%

Somewhat Conﬁdent: U— 40.6% L- 29.2%

Very Conﬁdent: U— 26.1% L- 12.5%

S

X

I

General Observation; Law Students aren’t as concerned with the SJC as 

Undergraduates, and both groups are less conﬁdent in the SJC than the EC.

Question 9: How confident are you in the ability of the Student
Faculty Hearing Board to adjudicate cases of sexual misconduct?
(Again I used the same scale as In question 7).

Undergraduate I Law

406 41./

   
   

Not Barely Neutral/No Somewhat
Conﬁdent Conﬁdent Opinion

Very
Conﬁdent Conﬁdent

General Observation." Although still fairly confident in the SFHB, that opin-
ion. signiﬁcantly trails both the EC and the SJ C.

Question 10: Do you favor disclosing the names of convicted
“students from any of the previously mentioned judicial boards?
(Students could choose any combination of the three or none of the three.)
None: U— 47.8% L- 70.8%
SFHB: U- 46.4% L— 25%
SJC: U- 33.3% L- 25%
EC: 23.2% L- 29.2%
General Observation: Students generally support the current rules govem—
ing conﬁdentiality in judicial cases. Women, at least among the undergradu-
ates, are more willing to support disclosure of names than men.

Question 11: Do you think the goal of the EC should be to over-
see the Honor System or to represent and administer the student
body? (I asked this question to see which of the EC's main functions
were considered to be its primary purpose. A few students refused to
rank the two alternatives.)

Oversee the Honor System: U- 72.5% L- 87.5%

Administer the Student Body: U- 23.2% L- 12.5%

No Answer: U—4.3% L— 0.0%

Question 12: Currently the annual student budget appropriations
are made by the members of the EC in closed-door sessions. Would
you support a ballot initiative to involve a wider representation of
the student body in these decisions?

Law Undergraduate

   

87.5% 94.2%

General Observation: Students seem to want more influence over, or at
least more knowledge about, how their activities fees are spent.

Question 13: Currently the annual appointments to student/fac-
ulty committees are made by the members of the EC in closed-

door sessions. Would you support a ballot initiative to Involve a ‘

wider representation of the student body in these decisions?

Yes: U- 826% L- 95.8%

No: U— 17.4% L- 4.2%

General Observation: Students are about as willing to open up the appoint-
ment process as the budget process.

What do you think?

What do you think about McCormack’s poll? Should student govem-
ment at Washington and Lee University be reformed? Write a Letter to the
Editor. E-mail us at phi@w1u.edu.

In January, the campus chapter of the Society of Professional Joumal-
ists will seek to ﬁnd out if students want more openness in government
proceedings. In a university-wide poll, SPJ will ask students to vote on
whether student judiciary bodies should disclose the names of students
who are found guilty. The results of the poll will be published in both
university newspapers.

 

 

DECEMBER 7, 1998

W&

Elli: iﬂing-Gum lﬂlii

IFE

PAGE 5

R
By Eliarma Marziani
STAFF WRITER
Christmas: a time for family, talks by a ﬁreplace, gingerbread men and sugar
'4

cookies, Christmas caroling, hot chocolate with lots of marshmallows, snow-
ﬂakes . . . and a mad rush to the mall and other stores to ﬁnd Christmas presents
for everyone from your mom to your best friend to your dog.

The Christmas season is a very busy time for everyone, full of decorating,
“ baking, shopping and planning. Though it is a very busy (and sometimes
stressful) time ofyear, it can
be a lot of fun. There is noth-
ing like finding the perfect
gift for someone special in
your life, the gift you know
~ he or she will absolutely love.

Sometimes this task is

harder for a college student,
since students are greatly lim-
ited in time, money and shop-
ping locations. Washington
and Lee University students
are lucky, though. Since Lexing-
ton is a tourist attraction, it has
many fun places to shop, most
within ﬁve or ten minutes of
, campus.
' These shops offer students
a way out of the where-to-buy-
what-for~whom dilemma, and
the result is a crazy boom of ac-
tivity for shopkeepers and stu-
dents alike.

In between helping custom-
ers, answering phones, gift-
wrapping items and offering
snacks to her customers, Patti
Neofotis found time to say that
at Christmas, “it’s busier than
the rest of the year” at the Cor-
ner of Lexington Gift Shop, lo-
cated (appropriately) at the cor-
. ner of Nelson Street and Main
' Street.

The Comer is a small gift shop
that sells all sorts of items, in-
cluding stuffed animals and
Beanie Babies, picture frames,
scented and decorative candles,
lamps, cards, figurines and

, g ,_ V _ ,  dishes. Students enjoy coming
Photos by Emily Bames/P oto Editor to this shop to buy fgr 
Christmas is coming soon, but friends and boyfriends or girl-
where do you go to buy 3]] those friends typically,Neofotis said.
presents? Lexington stores have a She Said: “When they ha“?
’: huge variety of gift items. Some reasfms to 5h°p’We _getag",f’d
examples are dainty teacups from pomon of students In here‘
. . What do students prefer to
the Victorian Parlour, snowman 9 “J 1 th 11 1.k
figures from Hamilton - Robbins buy‘ ewe ry ey rea y 1 e’
they buy a lot of candles . . .
., and a giant chocolate basket from

around Christmas they buy
C0903 Mlll Cl10¢0lateS- more things for mom: casse-

   
 
   
   

 

   

. Stressin’ your way through exams?
Help is just a deep breath away

By Ginger Phillips

F EA TURES EDITOR

I 3 There are only 18 short days until Christ-
’ mas. Before they can open the presents
jand chug the eggnog, however,
5 Washington and Lee students
’ musts face the less exciting
i task of taking ﬁnal exams. 
Along with exams there in—, '
A evitably comes stress, and "
lots of it.
h‘  “Everybody’s really

* freaked this week,” senior
Kelley Joy said. “All every-
one pretty much talks about
, during the last few weeks of
i the term is exams and how

stressed they are.”
_ Stress, despite what
many people think, can
y ‘be caused by both
good and bad changes
that occur to the body.
It can safely be said,

,..-V.

Make your list, check it twice and
start Christmas shopping in Lex

“I feel extremely stressed out right now,” junior Susan man class will
Terzian said. “There just isn’t enough time to do all of my have its first en-

 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
   

roles, glasses, wine,” she explained. She is expecting a lot
of Beanie Baby sales this year, yet she said that one can-
not be sure what product will sell best any year.

She defended student planning, too, saying, “[Stu—
dents] are pretty well planned out . . . I’d say 95% of them
are planned out,” not last minute shoppers.

Junior Lee Dunham, who shops at the Comer of Lex-
ington, is in the minority then. She has done none of her
Christmas shopping yet and does not know when she will
ﬁnd the time to do it.

“I don’t know what I’m buying anybody. I think I’m
going to have to do it all at home in the mall over Christ-
mas break,” she said. For her friends at W&L, she said,
“I’m going to buy some pretty nice gifts for my close
friends and then just get cards for everybody else.”

She likes shopping at the Comer, saying, “I think they
have cute things . . . little girly gifts.” For gifts for other
people, she offered Wal-Mart as a solution. “If it’s not
there, you don’t need it!”

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
Freshmen Selen Okcuoglu and Amanda Fischer explore the fashionable gift
options at Papagallo on downtown Main Street.

She said that she plans to get things that people can actually use. “Christ— pretty busy all year long in her store, at Christmas, “It’s wild. W-I—L-D, exclama-
mas ornaments are nice,” she said, “but if you don’t have a tree . . .” As for tion point!” Hockaday found that students were not necessarily last minute
what she wants herself? “I usually go for useful things . . . either useful or shoppers in her shop.

really expensive.” she said.

Poppet Nelson ofthe Cocoa-Mill Chocolate Company on Nelson Street

Virginia Born and Bred, located on Washington Street, is another of said that Christmas is the busiest time of year for the shop. Cocoa Mill

the popular stores student shop-
pers enjoy visiting. It is a gift shop
with a special emphasis on Virgin-
ian products. It sells all sorts of
knick-knack gifts, including Robert
E. Lee paraphernalia, collector
books, t-shirts with Virginia slo-
gans, Virginia souvenirs, little
stuffed animals, Christmas orna-
ments, figurines, picture frames,
plaques, candy, nuts, coffee, jellies,
scented candles and soap, dishes
and other goodies.

Ginger McNeese, who works at the
shop, said that a lot of students come
in to buy Christmas presents, mainly
for their families. “A lot of them buy
W&L things, but it’s sort of across
the board [as for what people tend to
buy]. Everything is pretty popular,”
she said.

“Around the end of the Christ-
mas season, [students] come in to
take things home,” she said. Before
students start panicking about the
fact that they haven’t even thought
about what to get their families yet,
they should realize that they are not

alone. McNeese said that the ma- Sophomore Liz Powers and her ‘‘little sister”
jority of student shopping at Vir- Rachel Lynch browse the goodies in Hamilton-

glnla BOT" and Bred l3 “deﬁnitely Robbins on MainvStreet downtown.
more last minute” than planned.

Photo by Emily Bames/Pli

offers all sorts ofgourmet chocolate, from truffles and
nonpareils to fudge and specially shaped chocolates.

Nelson said, “Truffles are popular, fudge is popular with
the students, but [student purchasing trends] depend on
the time of year.” Students come in to buy gifts for all sorts
of people, but Nelson noted that they very often come in
to buy “hostess gifts” for the parents of friends they will
spend break with.

There is no “best time to buy” at this shop, and
Nelson said, “Once you get into the real Christmas sea-
son it always stays pretty constant, busy all day long.”
She is expecting an onslaught of students over the
next two weeks, as her experience has been that for
student shoppers, “it doesn’t matter what it is, it’s al-
ways last minute.”

Freshman Veronica Griffith enjoys Christmas and
the shopping that goes along with it.

“It’s fun when you’re not rushed for time, because
you get to think about what you want to get for each
person, what they want,” she said.

She has not yet experienced this “fun,” though,
since she, too, has not even begun to shop. She plans
to buy for W&L friends next week in the downtown
Lexington shops, and then she will shop for family and
other friends the first week she gets back home for
break.

She does not know exactly what she will buy people.
“It depends on the person . . . I like to shop for indi-
viduals,” she said.

Mass shopping may be easier, but shopping with one
person in mind is always much more personal. Unfortu-
nately, it takes a lot more time. Observers will probably

Some students searching for a special gift for a mother, sister or girlfriend see many students splitting time between the Colonnade and the downtown
are happy with what they ﬁnd at the Victorian Parlour Gift Boutique on Main Lexington shopping area within the next week or so.

Street. This shop is devoted to items from the Victorian era, offering oil lamps,
crafted candlesticks, Victorian cards, decorations and other items for sale.

The Christmas shopping season has ofﬁcially begun, but with alf the fun
little shops in Lexington, W&L students should have no problem ﬁnding great

Ernestine Hockaday, owner of the Victorian Parlour, said that, although it is gifts for everyone on their lists, even if they wait until the last minute.

work and still get some sleep. It counter with
feels like I work con- those large manila
stantly and only envelopes with
stop to eat-that’s the blue books
..the..only way I hidden inside,
get it all and many of
done.” these newcomers
O t h e r s are beginning to
are more feel a little
—w o r r i e d stressed.
«\ a b, o u t “The fact that
V.‘ projects I’mhereintheli-
‘ » “and papers brary on a Satur-
 than the ex- day afternoon
ams them- should prove that

sors as- have to do Ijust get more nervous."
s i g n

 that are me.”

selves. I’m stressed,” freshman Matt Brill said. “I’m trying to ﬁn-
“A lot ish a paper now so that I can study for exams, but basically
ofprofes- I’m trying to block it all out. Ifl think about everything I

“I don’t feel too worried about exams yet,” freshman
p r oj e c t 5 Kate Mobley said, “but I’m just waiting for the stress to hit

V however, that the high

due at the
end of the se-

 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 

"‘ stress level prevalent on mester, and it’s
campus is due not to wor- really hard to fin-
; rying over what to buy your mom ish all of that and
' for Christmas, but what to tell her study for ﬁnals at
~- if you don’t pass multivariable the same time,”
calculus. «W _ sophomore Faniry
During this week and exam week 2 Rakotoarisoa

itself, the carrels and ﬁsh bowls in the X ‘ said.
library will be ﬁlled with students attempt-  The exam ex-
! ing to survive the stress of ﬁnals without "iﬁ perience is new
killing their roommates or jumping off of the :v ah to quite a few
footbridge.  Fa W&L Stu-
One of the biggest causes of stress for 7% dents this
. many students is that they think that they  year. Next
simply don’t have enough time to get ev— , -   week the
erything done.   ‘ fresh-

 

If the freshmen arejust becoming familiar with the exam
period, the seniors are inveterate exam takers and many
have ﬁnally learned how to overcome all the worries.

“I’m really not very stressed, and I definitely have things
under control,” senior Stephen Guenther said. “Ofcourse
I’m a little more bogged down than usual. but you can’t
avoid that.” .

“After you’ve been here for four years you learn how to
deal with stress,” Joy said. “Exam week is still really hectic
and stressful, but you’re used to it by the time you’re a
senior.”

What can those students whose nerves have not been
calmed by time and experience do when the stress of ex-
ams begins to weigh them down?

Making a plan of action and not procrastinating can
only make studying that much easier.

“I don’t feel fully prepared for ﬁnals. but I’m getting
ready for them by being organized and making time sched-

Photo by mily Bames/Photo Editor

Junior Khriss Stone hits the books in the quiet atmosphere of Leyburn Li-
brary. A great way to reduce stress is to begin studying for those exams early!

ules,” Rakotoarisoa said.

“You just have to sit down and do it,” sophomore Bisrat
Hailemichael said. “You” ll never feel prepared if you pro-
crastinate.”

By following this advice it is possible to keep your body
on a regular time clock. If the normal functions of your
body are disrupted by too little sleep or changes in diet,
you are more likely to become over—stressed.

Ifyou feel fatigued or over—anxious, then you need a
break.

“When I’m feeling too stressed out I’ll go rent a
movie or go out oftown for dinner," Terzian said. “You
should try to do something so that you’re not working
constantly."

“I just go to the Palms for a break,” Joy said. “Some-
times my friends and I will watch a movie or do something
relaxing to relieve a little stress.”

Final exams are a stressful burden for most students.
but there are ways to deal with them. When it’s four o’clock
in the morning and you’re still in the library writing a twenty
page paper and studying for tomorrow’s physics ﬁnal, take
a few deep breaths and remember that in the long run,
everything will be all right.

Or you can just try that age old cure that junior Riley
Greene says relieves all worries - “Sex.”

 

 

PAGE 6

5 : If ﬁling-@1111: lﬂlii

DECEMBER 7, 1998

Century-old message: yes, Virginia, there is a Santa Claus

In the spirit of the holiday season, The Ring-tum
Phi is pleased to bring you a reprint of one of the most
famous editorials of all time. This editorial appeared
in The New York Sun in 1897. It caused an immediate
sensation and was reprinted annually until 1949,
when the paper went out of business.

This piece and explanations of the editorial ’s back-
ground can be found online at http://
www. barricksinsurance. com/virginia. htm l. Enjoy, and
may you and yours have a very merry Christmas.

—— Erica Prosser and Ginger Phillips

We take pleasure in answering thus prominently the
communication below, expressing at the same time our great
gratiﬁcation that its faithful author is numbered among the
friends of The Sun:

I am 8 years old. Some of my little friends say there is
no Santa Claus. Papa says, “If you see it in The Sun, it ’s

so.” Please tell me the truth, is there a Santa Claus?
signed, Virginia 0 ’Hanlon

Virginia, your little friends are wrong. They have
been affected by the skepticism of a skeptical age. They
do not believe except they see. They think that nothing
can be which is not comprehensible by their little minds.
All minds, Virginia, whether they be men’s or children’s,
are little. In this great universe of ours, man is a mere
insect, an ant, in his intellect as compared with the
boundless world about him, as measured by the intelli-
gence capable of grasping the whole of truth and knowl-
edge.

Yes, Virginia, there is a Santa Claus.
He exists as certainly as love and generosity and devo-

tion exist, and you know that they abound and give to
your life its highest beauty andjoy.

Alas! how dreary would be the world if there were no
Santa Claus! It would be as dreary as ifthere were no
Virginias. There would be no childlike faith then, no
poetry, no romance to make tolerable this existence.
We should have no enjoyment, except in sense and
sight. The external light with which childhood fills the
world would be extinguished.

Not believe in Santa Claus! You might as well not
believe in fairies. You might get your papa to hire men
to watch in all the chimneys on Christmas Eve to catch
Santa Claus, but even if you did not see Santa Claus
coming down, what would that prove? Nobody sees
Santa Claus, but that is no sign that there is no Santa
Claus.

The most real things in the world are those that nei-
ther children nor men can see. Did you ever see fairies
dancing on the lawn? Of course not, but that’s no proof

that they are not there. Nobody can conceive or imag-
ine all the wonders there are unseen and unseeable in
the world.

You tear apart the baby’s rattle and see what makes
the noise inside, but there is a veil covering the unseen
world which not the strongest man, nor even the united
strength of all the strongest men that ever lived, could
tear apart. Only faith, poetry, love, romance, can push
aside that curtain and view and picture the supernal
beauty and glory beyond. .15 it all real? Ah, Virginia, in
all this world there is nothing else real and abiding.

No Santa Claus? Thank God he lives and lives for-
ever. A thousand years from now, Virginia, nay ten times
10,000 years from now, he will continue to make glad
the heart of childhood.

Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year!

Econolodge
540.463.7371

* Parents Discount *
* Newly Renovated *

* Free HBO w/ Remote *
* No Smoking Rooms *
* Free Continental *
Breakfast

Ceftic
Connection t

‘Unique imports .
from Irehmd, Scotfand, & the British ISLE:

 

Find That Special Holiday Gift! 0

(jive {Mom an elegant Beffeeh or Donegat”
China vase from Irefancffor under $40.00!
. Or sefect a tartan woof tie or scarf for
Dacfunzfer $25.oo—-wrapyecfantfreacfy to
put under the tree!

Be sure to see our gold. sterling. & pewter
Celtic knot jewelry—and don't miss our
exclusive line of Heathercems jewelry
handcrafted in Scotland from highland
heather!
(jewefry starting at 310.95)

_ We have hoohs, Cris, artworlé, ﬂlran
sweaters, capes & scarves, t-shirts, sweat-
yshirts, tweed hats, foocfs, crystaﬂperfumes,
tea toweﬁs, and much more—something for
every 5ucfget—alT giftwrapyecf for free!

Open daily 10-5:30PM and Sundays
through Christmas, noon-4PM

19 W. Nelson St. inxington
464-6545

Position: Assistant Business Manager
Time Commitment: 2-4 hours per week

Jason Williams at williamsjj'@wlu.edu.

Position: Online Editor
Time Commitment: 1 hour per week

is rrés ’ alittle lea .

Fatten it up by working on The Ring-tum Phi.

Requirements: Must be very organized and like to work with numbers

Our current Business Manager will train you to take over the Phi Business Office, and you will become the
Business Manager at the end of Winter Term. You will handle advertising accounts, invoices, and all financial
matters. Business Manager is a paid position — you ’ll earn cash through commissions. To apply, contact

Requirements: Must like working with computers; no HTML experience necessary

Our current Online Editor will teach you how to use a program that he wrote to convert the Phi ’s paper
edition to the online edition. All you have to do is “cut" and “paste” text — no web page experience is
necessary. To apply, contact Tom Waa'l‘ow at rwadlow@wlu.edu.

Lee Signed CDV

ROBERT E. LEE SIGNATURES
FOR SALE

 

Clipped signature with closing W/ CDV
Document signed "R. E. Lee, Lt. Engrs"
Letter Signed, Lexington, VA, 1870

AND
Washington College Diploma, 1867

Other Lees: Fitzhugh, G.\X/.C., "Rooney" & Lee's Father—In—Law

Also Available: Lincoln, Grant, Mosby, Longstreet, Ashby,
Beauregard, Early, A.P. Hiu, Imoben, etc., etc.

Great Framing, Great Service, Great History

Original Frameworks

1 North Main St. Lexington, 464-6464
M—F 10-6, Sat 9-4, New Manager

$3000
$4000
$6500
$5500

$4500

Thursday
3:00PM,

Tucker hall 318

  Seniors!
Thinking about
next year?
Come to meeting
to find out
about teaching
overseas.

 

WASI-IINGTONAND LEE
UNIVERSITY

,V‘u-glnh 24450

,Dec. 10

 

 

DECEMBER 7, 1998

W&

@112 iﬂing-Gum iﬂhi

IFE

PAGE 7

at

1

This year, avoid crowds, lines with click of computer musei

By Erica Prosser
FEA TURES EDITOR

It’s the most wonderful time of the year, a time of mistletoe and snow and
Santa Claus . . .

And it’s also a time of circling parking lots to ﬁnd a space, ﬁghting your way
through the crowded malls and racing from store to store before the other
customers beat you to the last available Furby in the entire tri-state area.

There’s a reason why shopping in malls has recently been linked to in-
creased heart rate and blood pressure in men.

Still, there’s hope. It’s the ‘90s, after all, and with today’s technology, a new
means of shopping has emerged: online shopping.

Before you shriek and bury your head at the thought of trying to buy things
over the Internet, consider this: online shopping has become
easier and safer than ever before. You never have to deal with
other customers or salespeople. And as for parking spaces? Don’t
bother. If you have an Internet browser and a credit card, you’re
all set.

But how to go about this new and exciting adventure in shop-
ping? Never fear. Just a few quick lessons and you’ll soon be on
your meny way.

First, the ways you go about this process can vary. If, for
example, you know for sure that you want to get your little sister
a Cinderella Barbie doll, go to www.toysrus.com and look under
“dolls.” It’s there, along with a huge selection of other toys sold
by the Toys ‘R’ Us chain. Do you think you want to get Uncle
Irving a Hickory Farms gift set? Head to www.hickoryfarms.com
and select what you like. Or how about a nice new mystery thriller
for Dad? Your one-stop source for books is www.amazon.com.

See a pattern? Most major chain stores have online ordering
on their web sites, and other services specialize in a wide selec-
tion of similar items, such as books, ﬂowers and CDs.

What if you don’t have a particular store in mind, or what if
you have no idea what to get that special someone this year?

Rejoice, for there is help for you, too. Many online services
provide shopping help and “mall” store selections for the unde-
cided shopper. Try out shopping.yahoo.com, www.irnall.com and
www.santa.com for help.

Have something speciﬁc but outrageous in mind and don’t
know where to look? Go to a search engine like www.yahoo.com,
enter your idea in the search window and let the list of related
web sites come to you. Yes, that collectible Star Wars Yoda ﬁgu-
rine is out there somewhere, just waiting to be purchased.

Which brings up another point: be careful of online auctions
and trading sites. Beanie Babies, Furbies and other hard-to-ﬁnd
items can be purchased for a (usually exorbitant) price at these
places, but there’s usually no way to tell if the sites are legiti-
mate. You would often be buying from other individuals who are
trying to unload the stuff, and you are each pretty much on your
honor to fulﬁll your parts of the business contract.

Most of the time, these sites are fine and no. one has any
complaints. When in doubt, though, stick with the more reliable

  

Get Home!

 

111 W. Nelson St.

<  

o
Q  
I-

    
  

@li1lP'll§llZl‘l‘lCll§
ﬁliopping

. E

Don't Wait Until You

We Have Gifts For
Dad, Mom, Brother,
Sister And "Best Girl"

Free Gift Wrapping - MasterCard - VISA - ANIEX

(Next To The Palms!)

shopping spots.

So you’ve arrived at the Disney Store online through disney.com, you’ve
selected the plush Mickey Mouse Santa Christmas ornament you want. and
you’re ready to check out. How do you know that your credit card number is
safe?

Online order forms that are safe use an encryption process to protect your
precious numbers. To see whether or not the order form is secure, look for
security information on the browser you use.

With Netscape, for example, the open “security” padlock on the toolbar at
the top of the browser will close and become surrounded by a yellow aura. The
tiny little padlock in the lower left hand comer ofthe window will do the same
thing. This is your indication that the site is safe (most online order forms won‘t
become secure until the page that asks for your mailing and credit card inforrna—
tion comes up, so don’t worry ifyou don’t see the padlocks close right away).

If you still don‘t feel safe entering your credit card number online, relax.
Most sites offer phone numbers that you can call to order merchandise if
you’re still squeamish.

Finally. online ordering can be fun for those who don’t have any money to
spend. You can send e-cards, e—kisses and e-flowers for Christmas to other
people who have e—mail accounts. You ﬁll out the information, and the recipient
will get an e-mail message featuring an electronic greeting from you. Dozens of
sites offer these free services: check out Yahoo! or another search engine to
find web sites that provide these features.

_ There you have it. a basic guide to Internet shopping! See, that wasn’t so V
awful. Now you have alternatives to battling your way through malls and outlet 1

stores. You can save both your sanity and your shoe leather at the same time.
Sit back, relax andjust click the mouse.
You might decide you like it.

   

age» -
, oyot 5 t.Y9u
'. oyot. ‘Dealer

* vingsba a on comparison of ‘Q9
Corolla equ ped with options a_cl<_ag§_y

   

comparably. uipped*‘98‘C6’r'6l a. Corolla
IS the best s l g car in history, based on
worldwide 5 $ i

 

 

 

55 0 11d In C   _.
N a In C

  
    
     
     
   

A Story Of Keégs, Da.m::es, Padd.Ii.ngs,
And A Hell Night Tliat Will LeadVYi;3u ’I‘t;3
Tlie.....

cx:npy( ﬁes) (inf H ELLMASTER

      
   
 
   
 
 

M /was

han l.215l Yeafl. .

g   ls\3all<e:-r

Add rttss

ZIP

Sir") per l‘)cml~: plm;  L"

Picttaarr ﬁt:-ii-it‘ n;*?‘i-;;r.*i>:a 

  
 

 

 

PAGE 8

@112 iﬁtng-tum iﬂlti

PORTS

DECEMBER 7, 1998 I »,

250*“ Basketball Tournament Highlghs

Men ’s team loses in ﬁnal minutes

By Brendan Harrington
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s basketball team has
made some tremendous strides since they posted a 2-22
record in the 1996-1997 season. The Generals took another
step in the right direction this weekend at the Warner Cen-
ter, playing some excellent basketball in the 250th Celebra-
tion Tournament. ~

Aﬁer defeating Middlebury College 74-61on Saturday,
the Generals (2-4, 1-1 ODAC) lost a heartbreaker to an excel-
lent Washington University team 66-64 as

C (

sophomore Will Ballard missed a three-
pointer at the buzzer.

“Whenever you have host your own
tournament you want to win it,” W&L head
coach Kevin Moore said following the
tough loss. “But except for a couple
stretches we played great basketball this
weekend. We’ve come a long way since
our first two games in Sewanee.”

“It was a tough loss, a couple of
things didn’t go our way down the
stretch, but we are starting to come together,” added sopho-
more guard Chad Braley. “It’s been a good weekend, we’ve
really turned it around since Sewanee, we’re playing twice
as good now as we did then.”

The Generals led 26-24, but the Bears (3-4) went on a 17-
6 run to take a 41-32 lead with 14:16 left to play. The Bears
took their biggest lead of the game at 50-40 with 10:29 left
in the game before the Generals went on a 10-2 run to cut
the lead to 52-50 with 7 :42 left in regulation.

With 5:34 leﬁ in the game and the Bears up 58-52, junior
Rich Peterson was called for his fourth personal foul and
then threw his mouth guard on the ﬂoor because of the
call, prompting the referee to call a technical foul on
Peterson. Not only did the Bears get four foul shots and
possession, but the technical foul also counted as
Peterson’s ﬁfth personal foul, sending the Generals’ best
player to the sidelines.

“Rich’s technical is disturbing,” Moore said. “It was a
good foul call and for Rich to react like that you have to
expect that the ofﬁcial is going to do something . . . Rich
knows he made a big mistake.”

Fortunately for the Generals, the Bears only scored three
points as a result of the play after they made three of the
four foul shots but turned it over on the awarded posses-
sion, making the score 61-52.

 

We’ve come a
long way since
Sewanee.

— coach Kevin Moore

 

The Generals trailed by nine with 4:21leﬁ and three-
pointer looked to be in serious trouble, but W&L scored
six straight points to cut the lead to 65-62 after Ballard
nailed a three-pointer with 1:22 to go.

The Generals got the ball back with 52 seconds left after
a Washington University turnover but Bears guard Ryan
Patton stole the ball from Braley on an excellent defensive
play and the Generals were forced to foul him.

Patton, who was 7-7 from the line at the time, made
this first free throw but missed the second, giving the
Generals the ball back trailing 66-62 with 30 seconds left
to go. Senior point guard Kevin Cobbin
scored a bucket on the other end to cut
the lead to two and then quickly fouled
Patton, sending him to the line with only.
8 ticks left on the clock.

Patton missed both of the‘ shots and
the Generals got the rebound. They had
no time outs remaining, so they quickly
dribbled it up into the front court where
9 9 Ballard attempted a three pointer but was

blocked by Washington University stu-
dent Dave DeCreff. He got his own re-
bound and then fired up one more three-pointer at the buzzer.
The last-second shot hit the backboard and front rim and
then fell to the ﬂoor, giving the Bears the two point victory.

“In a game like that there is about ten different things
that if you do them differently then maybe you win the
game, but I’m really proud of the way the kids battled back.”

“We wanted the big trophy, but we played hard all week-
end,” Cobbin said. “ It doesn’t feel good right now, but we
showed a lot of heart coming back from nine points down
with only four minutes left.”

Senior center David Cerven scored a game-high 20
points to go along with nine rebounds and was named the
toumament’s most valuable player. Sophomore forward
Chris Alexander added 14 for the Bears and was named to
the all-toumament team along with Cerven.

For the Generals, Braley led the way with 17 points and
Peterson and Cobbin each had 10. Braley and Peterson
were selected to the all-toumament team.

The Generals shot 39% from the ﬁeld compared to 49%
for the Bears. The Generals won the battle of the boards
35-27 while the Bears led in turnovers 22-21.

“It was a heck of a Division III basketball game,” Bears
head coach Mark Edwards said. “Both teams played with a
lot of intensity and a lot of heart.”

W&L host Emory and Henry on Wednesday at 7:30 p.m.

IT ’S BOOK BUYBACK TIME!
EAST SIDE OF EVANS DINING I-IALL

(TOWARD THE UNIVERSITY CENTER)

DEC. I5, I6 6179-400
DEC. 18 93:00

SPONSORED BY THE UNIVERSITY BOOKSTORE

 

it‘

?a

eekend 

Photo by Emily Bames/‘Photo Editor

Members of the W&L and Skidmore teams fight fora loose ball at the 250"’ Tournament.

Women ’s team loses consolation »

By Tod Williams

STAFF WRITER

Last week, the Generals hosted its first tournament in
the team’s six years of existence, the Washington and Lee
250"‘ Celebration Basketball Tournament. Before this year,
the team held a 7-4 record in invitational tournaments, in-
cluding the championship at at Carnegie Melon Touma-
ment last year.

From now on, the Generals should stick to being guests
at such tournaments.

The team lost its consolation game to Skidmore College
65-52 early Saturday evening, just after the team had lost
its first round game in the tourney on Friday night to
Middlebury College 52-40. W&L also lost to Randolph-
Macon 65-59 on Tuesday, in its only ODAC game sofar
this year. '

The Generals, off to a 1-4 start this year, had a rough
time in the tournament, losing the consolation round game
to Skidmore. W&L saw the lead only once in the game, and

the Thoroughbreds led by double digits four times in the
first half.

The Generals players were very much in the game going
into the locker room, down only four, 36-32. The Generals
did pull within two points with a little more than eight min-
utes to go in the game, but the run was quickly ended.
Skidmore went on a 15-2 scoring run to end the game.

The Thoroughbreds had three ladies in doubie digits, a
as All-Toumament selection sophomore forward Sarah
McEachron led the team with 17 points. Senior guard
Heather Mitchell dropped in 13, and Heather Martin added
11 points on the day.

Junior guard Ansley Miller led W&L in the scoring col-
umn with 15 points. Miller was also 8-8 at the foul line.
Senior forward Chrissy Burghardt, W&L’s sole All-Tour-
nament selection, pulled down eight boards for the Gener-
als. Freshman Alison Kudlacik was 2-4 from behind the ;,
arc.

Kudlacik paced herself to double digits in each of this
week’s three games, coming off the bench twice to do so.

  
   

Take a breath of fresh air . . .

. . . and find out how the women’s swim team did on page 9.

Photo by Emily Bames/Pl ditor

 

 

DECEMBER 7, 1998

Sii3"E)““RT S

PAGE 9

'1 By Steele Cooper

STA FF WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s swim team won its
first ODAC meet on Tuesday against Randolph—Macon
‘ Woman’s College. W&L took first in 10 ofthe 12 events
with strong performances from returning veterans and a
solid freshman class.

Three freshman women finished first in their individual
events. Freshman Kristen Bonnema won the 200 free. Fel-
low class mates Laura Ingoldsby and Maggie Fagan ﬁn-
ished first in their events. Ingoldsby swam her 100 free

  ‘Swim team wins ODAC meet

with the winning time of 59.46 seconds, and Fagan posted
a 1:08.83 to win the 100 ﬂy.

Junior Lauren Beckenhauer totaled two first place fin-
ishes on Tuesday. Beckenhauer won the 100 back with a
time of 1 :05 and the 500 free with a 5:45.01.

Junior Lauren McKeever won the 100 back with a time
of 1 2 16.00. Fellowjunior Lezael Haynes came in first in the
200 back with her time of2:27.28.

Seniors Margaret Hoehl and Laura Goodwin also posted
wins in their events. l-loehl led the pack in the 200 fly with
a 2: 19.09, and Goodwin took the 200 breast with her 2:50.69.

W&L swims today at Sweet Briar at 7 p.m.

As of Thanksgiving, the Washington and Lee
Mounted Generals are ranked second in the region,
' a few points behind Ferrum College and far ahead of
Hollins University, which holds third place. Senior
Lydia Nichols leads the team with her 7th place rank-
ing, and seniors Christine Starer and Sarah Rector,
as well asjunior Lindsay Gatling are also ranked in
the top 50 for high point riding. Several riders have
already qualified for individual Regionals.

On Nov. 18, W&L defeated 15 schools for the
Team Championship at Southern Virginia. These are
'1 the results of the show.

Open Equitation on the Flat

First —— Senior Lydia Nichols

Third -— Senior Sarah Rector
. Fourth a Senior Christine Starer

' Mounted Generals ride to top of class

Open Equitation Over Fences
Second —— Junior Lindsay Gatling
Fourth — Senior Lydia Nichols
Fourth —— Senior Sarah Rector

Intermediate Equitation Over Fences
First — Sophomore Annabelle Wirth

Novice Equitation on the Flat
Second — Freshman Staunton Binstead

Novice Equitation Over Fences
Sixth — Freshman Staunton Binstead

Advanced Walk Trot Canter
First — Senior Wendy Kimble

 
 

stoaﬁpté Guaran

C ONSOLATION

continued from page 8

She earned the start in Saturday evenings game. “1’ve
really learned a lot this year from the coaches and the team."
she said, “and I’m just playing the best I can.”

“lt’s nice to start, but it’s a real team effort every time we
play and practice,” Kudlacik said. “Everyone contributes
and works really hard.” .

Kudlacik has contributed seven of the
team’s ten three pointers. Last
season, the Generals
scored only a total of 19
three pointers, all of
which came from
Miller, who has

  
  
   
 
  

then a minute to play against Randolph-Macon. Unfortu-

nately, the Yellow Jackets scored the last four points in the
game to clench the 65-59 game.

W&L had produced an exciting late second half come-
back. scoring 12, as the team chopped down the Jackets’
14-point lead.

The game stayed close the entire first half, as Macon
took a 35-30 lead into the break. But the Jackets came out

to play in the second halfby starting with a 15-6 run,
which gave W&L a 50-36 lead.
The Generals then abolished what ap-
peared to be Macon’s domination as they
went on a 23-1 1 run to come within two,

at 6 1 -59.

The Jackets then put the game _
out of reach with four points

scored the other in the game’s final minute.
three this year, A pair of seniors and J
Head coach a pair of freshmen led the
Terri Dadio Generals both on the
Campbell knows court and in the scoring
that the freshmen Column in the game.
will have a major im— Burghardt led the team as

pact on the season.
She said that a fresh-
man will be on the ﬂoor

at all times during the sea-
son, as has happened
thus far.

Four freshmen have
comprised seven of the 15
starting positions in the last
three games.

On Friday, W&L actually I’;
led Middlebury College at
the break, but the Panthers
eventually pulled away for the
52-40 win.

The first half was definitely dominated by scoring runs.
Middlebury took quite a while to get warmed up in the
game. The Generals led off with an 8-0 run, holding the
Panthers scoreless for the first six minutes. Middlebury
then went on an 18-8 run to steal the lead from the Gener-
als. W&L ended the halfon a 7-0 run to take a 26-23 lead
into the locker room.

The second half was not as bright for the Generals,
however. The Panthers began with an 8-0 run to recapture
the lead at 26-23 with 17:23 left in the game. And from then
on, it was the Panthers’ game. The Generals were held to
only 17 points in the half while the Panthers came away
with 34. Kudlacik led the Generals with 12, while Burgh ardt
added 11 and seven boards.

Senior forward Kelly McCarthy led the Panthers with a
double-double. She had 13 points and 12 rebounds.

In the tournament’s championship game, Washington
University of St. Louis, the defending national champions,
fought off Middlebury for the 79-68 win. In Friday’s other
game, Washington defeated Skidmore to advance to the
championship.

Last Tuesday, the Generals came to within two with less

 

teed Credit Cards with Credit Limis
Up To $10,000 Within Days!

No CREDIT, N o J OB, No PARENT SIGNER, No SECURITY DEPOSIT!

 

  

  
        
  
    
 
  

 

she posted her first double-
double of the year with 16 points and ten
rebounds.

Freshman Jessica Mentz was not too far be- I
hind with 14 points and eight boards on the .
night. Kudlacik added 1 1 and Miller dropped in
ten.

Senior guard Aimee Beightol led Macon with

16, while junior center Renee Zando con-
tributed a double-double performance. .

The Generals currently sit at 1-4

overall, and 0-1 in the ODAC. Winless

so far in December, the only win came

from a game at Villa Julie, which was ac-

tually four days before Thanksgiving.

On Tuesday, the W&L team will look for a win as it
travels to Randolph—Macon Women’s College for a 7
p.m. game. V

t1ie200-meter,(iashwith,a‘ti1ﬁi,§ , 9,82
Nicola  ) ed  pla
of33.65 inthe 200-tneteridaslil Britt Shaft?
in 14th place in the the 55‘ , p u
timeof10.31. .:*  
’ Boththemen’s andwoiﬁ   , ,
Lebanon Valley on January 23 for their 11,

—‘:.‘.«’r.

 

 

GI/A194 M55
1

 
 
 
   

-« no credit ° bad credit ° no income?
     lfYouThinkYou    
' Can't Get A Credit Mastercard
Card, Think Again. ’     3
Want VISA & MasterCard Credit Cards?  
~ i--------------—----———-—-—--—-—----—————_...._......-...._..-.._..._..,
* 5     ORDER FORM 1
l  S ' I want Credit Cards immediately. N..TE,£D:-iAPP.RovAL :
, 1 . CRA, PO Box 16662, ATLANTA, GA 30321 1
I ame ................................................................................................................................................. ..
1 :ClCll’€SS ............................................................................. ..................................................................fffff.ffffIfIIffffIf:fffffffifIIf:ff.if::.::!.::!::!!I:::::Z """"" " l
 . City .................................................................................................................... .. State ............................................... .. Zip .................. 
E : Signature ...............................................................................................................................  .................................................................................................. 
‘ l Tired of Bein Turned Down? 1
3  I
‘ L Guaranteed $10,000 In Credit!    1
  —----—--—--————----—----———----————....._——_.......__-________..i

 

 

Humor Page

PAGE 10

 

DECEMBER 7, 1998 ’

Holiday gifts for spoiled rich W&L brats »

By Kevin McManemin

M Y COLUMN, BERNIE

Brush aside the mounds of 250'“ crap in the bookstore
and you’ll discover a treasure trove of W&L Christmas gifts.
You’re sure to ﬁnd the perfect gift for everybody on your
list.

Dean “Leroy” Buddy Atkins plush doll

Huggable, lovable, squeezably soft, this doll is the per-
fect gift for all ages, with the sole exception of women over
12 and men of any age. Comes with fun interchangeable
bow ties in eight designer colors.

The Computer Help Desk Home Game

Roll the dice. Move the pieces. Move them back. Clum-
sily ﬁddle around with them for an hour. Break the board.
Don’t bother keeping score because everyone who plays is
a loser.

English Department action ﬁgures

Now your hyperactive little brother can reenact all the
fun and excitement of college English courses with these
awesome new action ﬁgures, based on the hit cartoon se-
ries!

Here comes Professor Ray complete with battle axe and
Laser Death Blaster®. ZAP! ZAP! 'Ihere’s Professor Miller,
Warrior Princess, with real Kung Fu kickboxing action.

Uh oh, evil Warlord Jim Warren and his brutish hench-
men Smout and Craun are up to no good again, hoarding all
the Emily Dickinson books in the library.

But look out! Crashing through the brick wall is Profes-
sor Wheeler in the battle-ready Wheeler-mobile® with
Dabney Stuart in the machine gun turret. BLAM BLAM
BLAM! Warren and his thugs are torn to shreds like a poor
thesis.

(Castle Payne Hall Action Playset® sold separately)

The Abortion of the Month Club

The perfect gift for that irresponsible yet irrepressibly
popular girl on your hall. It’s the gift that keeps on giving
for the girl who keeps on giving!

W&L dress-up book

What should Chad and Wescott wear today? Should
they wear their khakis and blue polo shirts or khakis and
dark blue polo shirts? It’s up for you to decide in this 42-
page, 4-item dress-up book. Minutes of fun!

Virtual pledge

From the makers of the electronic toy sensation

Tamagotchi comes Virtual Pledge, the frat-tacular new game

that’s sweeping the Greek world. Be sure to force feed your‘

virtual pledge beer and dip and heap abuse on him daily so
that one day he’ll grow into a brother — but feed him too
much and he’ll go to the inﬁrmary. Play fun games with
Virtual Pledge including Clean-the-Puke, Paddleass and
Lineup (the game they won’t tell you about at the rush
dinner).

    
    
  
  
     
  

  

;   _bl
.,/,.elf,workersiathi ‘
~  ¢“Iihad,fnoc _ ~ .
:{fo1;fall the cliildre, 1n;thi World ‘ 
I hadVtq3lay.oii7,the.élvestogremai co
,.~riiarketplace:’
7‘li.1‘1i<é»!=’1’f“1Zé,y<.>iff has ;devTast%ited¥i,<>1K‘e Ségmén

’ .7.«t’1.i“e Northi.PoIe,ieconoiny,,such as the tinygpoiiji

   

  iaiidgthe tiny shoe 
‘ ,Santa’s toys will; now be,‘-Iriade.'b

V y’ ipdoztes
- gnomes for sevenrc/ents an hoiurg 4 *7; "

 

Starr puts~C1inton on‘naughty’1ist, g
Washington -— Independent Counsel”:Ke/ni1”eth 
Starr submitted a 1,400 page report to Santa Claus ”
detailing reasons why President Clinton should be
put on the “naughty” list. I 3 I
“President Clinton has been a bad, very bad bo
‘ this year,” Starr concluded. “He does not deserve the
,_ Sony Playstation he asked for.” ' '
Clinton blames the report on the “right wing con-
‘ spiracy” against him.

he Last Word would like to wish all

of our readers a very Merry

Christmas, Happy Hanukkah, Joyous
Kwanzaa, Smashing Boxing Day, Wonderful
Wiccan Winter Solstice, Happy Yanomamo
Sun God Feast, Bleak Nihilist Day, or a good
whatever bizarre holiday your particular sect
in our fractured society celebrates.

by Brian Prisco
PHI MOVIE GUY

  

 3:2 5
(W/ait until the
matinee showing)

“Very Bad Things” is not so much
a movie as a life changing experience.
After seeing this horrifying graphic
ﬁlm, I left the theater, as did much of
the audience, clutching my head in my
hands and mumbling, “Jesus Christ.
Jesus Christ.” It was THAT vicious.

“Very Bad Things” was written and
directed by Peter Berg (Chicago Hope),
a first timer behind the camera. I am
not sure what drug he was injecting,
snorting or smoking, but it should
probably be outlawed and destroyed.
The savage comedy strikes at every
single aspect of society that could be
considered wrong and shows it in all
its brilliant glory.

The movie has an outstanding
cast. Jon Favreau (“Swingers”) I5

a.‘

about to get married to Cameron Diaz
(“Something About Mary”) and be-
fore the day is through, he and his bud-
dies go out on a rampaging, all-out
bachelor party bonanza. It’s a drink-
ing drugging whoring crazy whoopti—
do, until Jeremy Piven (P.C.U.) acci-
dentally kills the hooker. Which is a
shame, cause she had quite a pair on
her.

Then, the movie breaks down into
a grotesquery that Quentin Tarantino
would vomit at.

The twisted death in this movie is
not so much the point, it’s the fact that
you don’t really see it coming until it
is too late, and then it hits you all at
once. It’s like taking a sledgehammer
to the cerebral cortex. Which might be
one ofthe only items not used to kill
someone in this movie.

The plot runs smoothly and
quickly, and is well played out by ev-
eryone. Christian Slater is surprisingly
dire, Daniel Stern takes an out-of—the-
norm turn as the only semi-vigilant
family man with morals (limited though
they are) in this gruesome gathering,
and Diaz isjust frightening. Berg de-
scribed her character as “Martha

Very good movie gives audience very bad feeling

Stewart on acid.” I’d say more like
“Martha Stewart on PCP and crack.”
The ending is wrong on so many lev-
els, but it ﬁts this movie perfectly. I
wouldn’t dare spoil the horrid effect it
had on me, so just go and see it for
yourself. Seriously.

The question that most people
have put to me is “Yeah, but would I
want to see it?” I felt dirty because I
laughed a lot during the movie. A
whole lot. More than I should have.
And I left the theater feeling evil. How
can I answer it?

Well, a comparison. “Pulp Fiction”
involved a scene where someone gets
his head blown offin a car and bits of
brains and blood are everywhere.

“Single White Female” involved a ‘

scene where a woman jams a high
heeled shoe into a man’s eye socket.
This movie makes them look like kiddie
ﬁlms. So there.

Sound like your cup oftea? lfyou
don’t like savage violence or twisted
humor, this is not your movie, do not
even waste your time. But if you dig
sick shit, hey, this is deﬁnitely the flick
for you.

designed  Hollister Hovey

The cast of the wonderfully twisted comedy '1
“Very Bad Things.”

 

