R

0112 '4L’»ittg-111111 light

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

VOLUME 101, No. 7

by Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

Though there are still two months
left before Christmas, Washington and
Lee University came out with an ambi-
tious wish list today of which any kid
would be proud of.

The W&L Board of Trustees ap-
proved a strategic plan that addresses
a variety of university aspects, includ-
ing student life, curriculum, facility
planning and athletics at a recent meet-
ing. The strategic plan will be pre-
sented to the faculty in a meeting to-
day.

“The heart of the university is the
conversation that occurs daily in many
different ways among its faculty and
students,” W&L President John Elrod
said. “The more reﬁned the conversa-
tion, the more likely it will be that our
graduates will become leaders in their
professions and in their communities.”

The strategic plan calls for such
things as a review of the general edu-
cation program, developing further in-
terdisciplinary programs, adding three
new intercollegiate sports for women,
increasing numbers of student-ath-
letes, reducing alcohol abuse and
“enhanc[ing] Greek life so it is consis-

tent with the overall mission of the
university.”

Other goals included have to do
with facility planning, and were cov-
ered in some part by the master plan.
Extensive renovations are planned for
the freshmen dorms, the law school,
Reid Hall, Doremus Gym and the prac-
tice ﬁelds. A new University Com-
mons will be built, as well as a new art
and music building, a lighted artiﬁ-
cial turf ﬁeld, and a ﬁeld house with
an indoor swimming pool.

According to director of communi-
cations Brian Shaw, the plan is some-
what ambiguous in places. “A lot of it
is vague, intentionally so, so that we
can prioritize things as we go.”

Over the next months, the adminis-
tration will begin the prioritization pro-
cess, developing speciﬁc designs and
methods of execution. Money Will not
be drawn from the endowment, rather
fund-raising will take place to cover
costs.

Strengthening the endowment is
another goal listed, with the intent of
increasing ﬁnancial aid so as to attract
high quality students. According to
Elrod, W&L will continue to admit “the
most able students who exhibit sound-
ness of character and show promise

Faculty to vote on
new pledgeship
guidelines

by Eszter Pados

STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee University is
taking the ‘high road’ to a fraternity
pledgeship program that will reﬂect the
core values of the University.

The new fraternity pledgeship pro-
gram will be presented to the faculty
on today. If approved, the program
will be implemented in January 1999.

At its May 1998 meeting, the
Board of Trustees called on the Stu-
dent Affairs Commitee to develop a
new program. After discussion with
the IFC and fraternity members, Ex-
ecutive Committee President and SAC
member Beth F ormidoni, as well as
EC Vice President and SAC member
Wen Hutchinson presented a model
for a value-based pledgeship pro-
gram.

“Their idea was enthusiastically
supported by the Board of Trustees,”
David Howison. dean of Students,
said. After the board meeting last
week, the SAC unanimously approved
the program.

According to Howison, the univer-
sity has a rule-based pledgeship pro-
gram now.

But, he said, “a rule-based society
is not the way to go.”

In 1987, the university adopted
rule-based standards for fraternity life
and pledgeship programs. Rules, such
as curfews for pledges, and the fre-
quency of pledge programs each week
will be replaced by value standards, if

the program is approved. While until
now the program comprised of clear-
cut rules, the new program has very
few speciﬁc rules.

Junior Rob Baldwin, a Lambda Chi
Alpha brother, said that until now, there
were distinct rules. He sees the new
program as “vague and open to inter-
pretation.”

Howison said that the SAC antici-
pates a lot of questions about speciﬁc
cases. He said, however, that they
have to pull fraternities up to the uni-
versity value standards.

The new program says that any
pledge activity that is found to com-
promise a student’s “honor, academic
performance, or personal dignity” will
result in the suspension of the pledge
program and immediate initiation of the
pledges. Placing a pledge in a situa-
tion where he or she might feel the need
to lie, steal or cheat is an example of a
pledge activity that may jeopardize a
student’s honor.

According to the new fraternity
pledgeship program, “The remaining
weeks of pledgeship will be the length
of pledgeship for the following year.”
For example, if a pledge program is
suspended in the ﬁfth week of the al-
lotted pledgeship period, it will result
in a three-week pledge program the
following year.

Among the few speciﬁc rules in the
new guidelines would be one limiting
pledgeship to eight weeks.

Fraternities take collective respon-
sibility for any violation of the program.

According to Howison, any pro-

A

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

Administration outlines strategic plan

as potential leaders among their
peers.”

In addition, the plan also calls for
an in-depth periodic review of majors
offered at W&L. This will include ana-
lyzing trends, and increasing or declin-
ing demands in certain majors. The

strategic plan also calls for unspeci-
ﬂed faculty additions, including addi-
tional professorships in both the un-
dergraduate and law school.

The board of trustees is currently
working to develop a strategy for ex-
ecution of the strategic plan. Details

will be made available over the next
months and years as priorities and
funding are established.

An overview of the plan and the
executive summary are available in both
the Leybum and Law School libraries.

“I believe this plan with its inte-

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1998

grated goals and aspirations is of a
single piece,” Elrod told trustees. “If
we will embrace it today and actualize
it tomorrow, we will have lifted the
university to a special place among the
nation’s premier educational institu-
tions.”

B00-STER CLUB

Some W&L students had some strange visitors rapping on their doors
Saturday night. The goblins, spooks and witches were out in force this
Halloween. Traditional Halloween Night candy collection started on early
Thursday evening for Lexington’s younger children during which about 70
downtown merchants were handing out candy.

photo by Hollister Hovey/Executive Editor

gram and pledgeship related honor
violations will be turned over to the
Interfratemity Council for fraternities,
and the Panhellenic Council for sorori-
ties. “The penalties for a violation of
pledgeship standards are designed to
provide immediate and future conse-
quences,” he said.

If the violation is so serious that
the suspension of the pledgeship pro-
gram is an insufﬁcient penalty, the
councils may recommend an additional
penalty, including critical probation or
suspension of the fraternity. Howison
said the SAC will review and deal with
the recommendations.

Howison said that the IFC should
not be policemen, but “responsive and
realistic.” A pledge’s academic perfor-
mance, for example, may suffer due to
factors other than pledgeship.

According to Howison, this pro-
gram will be better than the one in the
past.

“I’m optimistic,” Howison said.
“But I am also a realist,” he added,
keeping the possibility of difﬁculties
with the new program in mind.

Lambda Chi
brothers shoot
up frat house

by Eszter Pados

STA FF WRITER

Two BB guns were conﬁscated from thin I aml-aria (‘hi
Alpha fraternity house at Washington and Lee University
last weekend after they were used to shoot at empty beer
cans within the house, causing damage to university prop-
erty.

Physical Plant employees noticed the chipped paint
and holes in the house’s walls. They informed campus
security of the damages. Thomas Bane, trafﬁc control
ofﬁcer at W&L, confronted the brothers and conﬁscated
the guns.

If caught by police ofﬁcers, the brothers would have
been taken to court. Since security conﬁscated the guns,
it is a civil matter. The two brothers who admitted to pos-
sessing the guns will attend a hearing by the Student Judi-
ciary Council. So far, one other brother admitted to shoot-
ing the gun.

This is a civil, as well as a criminal matter, said Sgt.
Torben Pedersen of the Lexington Police Department.

W&L administrative rules prohibit the possession of a
ﬁrearm on campus. The city of Lexington has made it ille-
gal to shoot a ﬁrearm within city limits, although it allows
possession” of a ﬁrearm.

The laws of Virginia and Lexington, as well as the rules
of W&L, classify any weapon that uses pressure to propel
a bullet as a ﬁrearm. BB guns‘, as well as paint guns, are in
this category, according to Pedersen.

“No dangerous weapons are allowed on campus,” W&L
director of security Michael Young said. “Someone can do
serious damage with them.”

According to Pedersen, W&L security may conﬁscate
arms even if they are not used. Police officials will only do
so if a weapon is shot or illegally concealed.

See GUNS, Page 2

Ruse offers cup of culture

by Hollister Hovey

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

A little bit of java ﬁnally hit Lexington.

The Ruse coffee house opened on Halloween night to a
crowd of costumed coffee drinkers.

Owners Dow Harris ’98 and Rich Walter ’98 estimate
that about 100 people came to consume on Saturday
night.

“It was ‘a huge success,” Harris said.

The Ruse ﬁnancier, Valerie Alessi bet Harris and Walter
that they would not open by their Oct. 31 goal.

“Originally, if we were open by Halloween we bet that
we’d get to dress her up, and if we weren’t ready, she’d
dress us up,” Walter said. “We weren’t going to lose that
bet.”

The coffee house is located at the comer of Nelson and
Randolph Streets, a new hub for late-night entertainment.
The Volcano, B.J.’s Oasis and the Ruse are all located at
this intersection.

“The whole trafﬁc pattern of town might shift this way,”
Walter said.

See RUSE, Page 2

W&L students teach Espaﬁol
Waddell Elementary style

  

by Charlotte Graham

STA FF WRITER

Spanish majors from Washington
and Lee University are lending a mano
in Waddell Elementary School’s after-
school enrichment program.

The tutoring program, which is in
its ﬁrst year, has gotten a positive re-
sponse from parents and students
alike, according to Mary Atthowe,
principal of Waddell Elementary
School. The school decided to add the

photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Editor
Enid Dean and Colleen Calvey practice
a hymn for their upcoming concert on.....
For more on the university music
groups, see W&Life on page 4.

program when it saw that parents and
teachers were both supportive.
Waddell Elementary School takes
surveys from parents and teachers
every year, according to Atthowe. For
the past two years, a foreign language

program has been suggested, and was
ﬁnally approved.

Keri Dunphy, a senior at W&L, vol-
unteers with the children on Tuesday
aﬁemoons. She helps part-time teacher
Lisa D’Amelio to teach Spanish to kin-
dergarten through ﬁfth-graders.

“I’m just another teacher,” Dunphy
said. “I help them out with appropri-
ate responses and pronunciation.”

Dunphy said that she and
D’Amelio have conversations with a
puppet to teach vocabulary. They re-
peat the conversation several times
and then ask the kids what they think
they are saying.

Dunphy said that it was funny to
watch the children try to ﬁgure ou_t
what they were saying. Apparently the

method worked, however. Dunphy
said that the kids remember the vo-
cabulary from week to week.

“It’s fun,” Dunphy said. “The kids
seem really excited about it and they
want to learn, which is exciting for us.”

Dunphy heard about the opportu-
nity to volunteer from her professor.
She is considering teaching Spanish.

“I hope this experience will help me
ﬁgure that out,” she said, “but mostly
Ijust like to speak Spanish. It’s fun to
share that with little kids that are ea-
ger to learn.”

Junior Ellen Reynolds also helps at
Waddell Elementary. She works with

kindergarten and ﬁrst grade students

see SPANISH, Page 2

,~ﬂ

photo by Hollister Hovey/Executive Editor
Junior Collin Gleason gulps down his “Big
Daddy” at the Halloween Night grand opening
of the Ruse. Coffee drinks are served in “Big
Daddy” or “Little Mama” sizes, and baked items
such as cheesecake and pie are offered.

Ellie ﬂing-tum iﬂlit

November 2,1998

OPINION:
Problems with online registration, letter
from dateless girls and Talk Back.
PAGE 3
W&LII;E:
W&L music: WLUR shows, a cappella
groups, University Chorus and more . . .
PAGE 4-5
SPORTS: ‘
Football wins third straight, volleyball
wins ODACs and soccers lose.
PAGE 6-7

 

 

/

PAGE 2

Ellie ﬁling-tum iﬂhi

NEWS

NOVEMBER 2, 1998 

SPANISH

continued from page 1

on Wednesday afternoons.

“It’s fun,” Reynolds said. “I think
it’s really a good community service
for me to be involved in because I
know Spanish. lt’s also great to be
around little kids.”

Senior Heather Bradley and junior
Suzie Blum also participate in the pro-

gram

as

he student helpers are great,”
D’Ame1io said. “Thank goodness is
all I can say.”

Waddell Elemantary advertised in
search of a Spanish teacher. D’Amelio,
a certified elementary education
teacher and the director of the
Montessori Center for Children, re-
sponded.

“I didn’t even know Spanish until
this past summer,” she said. She and
her husband were in Spanish speak-
ing countries from July until March.
She taught English as a second lan-
guage to adults at a community col-
lege in Chetumal, Mexico.

“I learned Spanish there,” D’Amelio
said. “It was a great experience.”

There are about 25 to 30 kids in the
3 p.m. class and 10 to 15 in the 4pm.
class, according to D’Amelio. The
second time slot had to be added be-
cause of the overwhelming response
to the course.

Waddell Elementary offers the pro-
gram after school because it cannot
fit a non-mandated course into an al-
ready heavy academic load. Virginia
already requires high standards in

schools, so an extra course is not pos-
sible. The course is optional for the
students.

The school board pays for supplies
and the teacher’s salary so that par-
ents do not have to pay for the pro-
gram. The student helpers are not paid.

“We’ve had a foreign language pro-
gram in years past, but the parents
paid,” Atthowe said. “I did not like that.”

Other Virginia elementary schools,
mostly in northern Virginia, have for-
eign language programs.

Dunphy, Reynolds and D’Amelio
agree that they enjoy the program, and
the students do too.

“They really seem to like it,”
D’Amelio agreed. “Other teachers tell
me that they go around school saying
‘Buenos dias, como esta?’”

GUNS

continued from page 1

Students who live off campus are
not bound by this administrative rule.
They may possess guns, as long as
they are not used within the city lim-
its. Security ofﬁcers from W&L have
no authority off-campus to conﬁscate
ﬁrearms.

Using a firearm inside Lexington is
a serious matter. “We would press
charges and take them to court,”
Pedersen said.

W&L, as an institution of higher
education, and states and other juris-
dictions have the right to prohibit the
possession and/or shooting of weap-
ons within its limits despite the Sec-
ond Amendment, which gives every
citizen a right to bear arms, Pedersen
said.

According to Young, a total of four
BB guns were conﬁscated from cam-
pus housing in the last couple of
years, along with slingshots, one bal-
loon shooter and knives. The conﬁs-
cated weapons are kept in Young’s of-
ﬁce and will not be returned.

In the Lambda Chi incident, the
house walls were damaged as the BB
gun’s bullets hit the walls, leaving
holes and chipped paint.

“Security came in and took the two
guns,” a Lambda Chi brother, respon-
sible for possessing a BB gun, said.
“We will have to pay for the damages.”

According to the two fraternity
brothers whose guns were conﬁs-
cated, BB guns are available at Wal-
Mart. Pedersen said that one has to
be 18 years or older to buy BB guns.

In Virginia, a record is kept of every

individual who purchases a ﬁrearm,
Pedersen said.

A concealed weapon permit is
given to individuals who have a good
reason for it. Security guards, for ex-
ample, sometimes request a concealed
weapon permit for the purpose of self-
defense.

To purchase a BB gun, a purchase
record is not required.

“It’s marketed for kids,” Pedersen
said. “It looks like the real thing. They
play with it . . . [although] it can cause
just as much damage as any other ﬁre-
arm.”

Young said that the consequences
for such behaviors rarely exceed pay-
ing for the damages.

The case of the Lambda Chi frater-
nity brothers has been handed over
to the SJC.

RUSE

continued from page 1

“The businesses all compliment
each other because they meet differ-
ent needs,” Harris said.

The Ruse will offer culture to the
Lexington community.

They plan to host open mic nights
where anyone can perform. The own-

ers want it to beta forum for student’

expression.

Groups can reserve the Ruse for their
own cultural events for $50. W&L So-
ciety for the Arts is hosting a
cappuccino mug painting session there
next Saturday from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m.

“I think the Ruse ﬁlls a void in the
Lexington community,” Society for the
Arts cochair Ashley Marano said.
“SFA really wants to work with the
Ruse to bring cultural activities to Lex-
ington. It’s the perfect forum.”

The Ruse is a product of local out-

cry for more late-night social alterna‘-P ‘
‘ tives to fraternities or the bar scene.

The coffeeshop will also give stu-
dents a place to go when the Co-op
closes.

The Ruse is open every night from
6 p.m. to 2 a.m.

    

Co-owners Harris and Walter

Writer’s Harvest $ for hunger

by Charlotte Graham

STAFF WRITER

the organization, according to Smith.

“A lot of the money we raised is due to a donation from

the IFC,” Smith said. “We can’t thank them enough.”

 

Literary readings took place at universities and book-
stores all over the United States at the same time on Thurs-
day night. Washington and Lee University was no excep-
tion.

“The camaraderie of the evening is that hundreds and
thousands of people are all reading simultaneously,” said
Rod Smith, editor of “Shenandoah,” who organized the
reading at W&L.

The Writer’s Harvest readings are part of Share Our
Strength, a Washington, D.C.-based organization that
raises money for hunger.

“The idea behind it is that they choose a night in the
fall, and we all have readings,” Smith said.

Share Our Strength gave $45 million last year to state
agencies to support school breakfasts, childcare and food
stamps.

They published a book to raise money. The writers in it
gave their royalties to the organization.

Washington and Lee raised about $1,000 this year for

Beth Perry, a senior broadcast journalism major, read
her poetry about growing up in the South at the Writer’s
Harvest.

“I think last night was great, because it was for a good
cause,” Perry said. “It was a really good opportunity for
me to present some of my work.”

Chris Camuto, Assistant Professor of English, read
about trout and wolves from his book, titled “Another
Country.”

English Professor Lesley Wheeler, sophomore geology
major Christine Metzger and sophomore English major Su-
san Slim also read their poetry.

“I was pleasantly surprised,” Smith said. “I didn’t know
any of the work of the students.”

About 50 people came to the reading in Northen Audi-
torium.

“The audience seemed to have a good time, if the ap-
plause and people coming up to talk at the end is any
sign,” Smith said.

E-mail General Notes to 
u

., 3%

 

Stop Pegasus from eating e-mail

University Computing is urging students to take steps
to prevent the loss of Pegasus e-mail. Some combination
of circumstances is causing some users to lose e-mail from
the Pegasus “main” folder, and while the causes are in-
vestigated, UC recommends that users change a simple
setting in Pegasus, as described in a document on the
HelpDesk Web page: http://jeﬂersorz.w1u.edu/~helpdesk.

This document also explains steps to recover lost e-mail,
which will no longer be possible after Nov. 3, when changes
will be made to the university’s servers.

Sexual assault support group meets

A conﬁdential support group sponsored by the Uni-
versity Counseling Service will begin to meet weekly for
Washington and Lee women who have experienced sexual
assault or abuse at any time in their lives. Each member will
sign an agreement of conﬁdentiality at the first meeting.

Please call Carol Calkins, the Counseling Service secre-
tary or the University Health Service at x8401 to learn of
times and locations.

Sullivan named Vice President

Barry Sullivan, dean of the Law School at Washington
and Lee University, has been promoted to vice president
and dean of the Law School. Sullivan’s new position was
announced at the recent meeting of the University's Board
of Trustees in Alexandria, Va.

Sullivan received his A.B. degree from Middlebury Col-
lege and his J .D. degree from the University of Chicago.
He served as law clerk to John Minor Wisdom of the United
States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit before joining
the ﬁrm of Jenner & Block in Chicago. He was assistant to
the solicitor general of the U.S. from 1980 to 1981 before
returning to Jenner & Block where he was named partner.

Sullivan became dean of the Washington and Lee Law
School in 1994.

IPS presents classical Indian dance

The International Performing Arts Series at Washing-
ton and Lee University will present an evening of classical
Indian dance in Washington and Lee’s Lenfest Center on
Nov. 10 at 7:30 p.m., featuring Padmarani Rasiah.

Bharatha Natyam, the ancient classical dance form of
India that showcases Indian mythology, has existed for
more than 4,000 years. Colorful costumes, sparkling jew-.
elry and specially woven ankle bells complement the tradi-
tional Bharatha Natyam presentation. ‘

This concert is sponsored by W&L’s Ofﬁce of Intema-
tional Education and is free and open to the public.

Conference explores issues of honor

Washington and Lee University will host the Eighth
Annual Conference for the Center for Academic Integrity,
Nov. 6-8.

The weekend will also include a Mock Academic Integ-
rity Trial presented by the Executive Committee.

The conference is expected to attract more than 200
people to discuss honor and responsibility in the class-
room and on campus. Participants will explore what sanc-
tions are effective and sensible and what their college or
university community can do to promote academic honesty.

Society shows “The Last Days of Disco”

The next presentation of the Film Society will be Whit
Stillman’s witty comedy “The Last Days of Disco” (USA,
1998). Screenings will be at 7:30 p.m. this Friday and Satur-
day in the Troubadour Cinema.

It is only fair to warn viewers that “The Last Days of
Disco” has little feel for the period, the clothes, or the
music of that lurid, druggy early ’80s moment in New York
City night life.

Stillman’s focus is two Hampshire College grads who
share an apartment but have little else in common. By day
they work in publishing jobs; at night they go out club-
bing with guys who used to go to Harvard. What Stillman
captures what it feels like "to start your adult life in a big
city, to ﬁnd yourself rooming with people you don’t really
like, to rush into relationships without quite knowing why.

W&L broadcasts UVA conference

W&L will broadcast the Nobel Peace Laureates Confer-
ence, sponsored by the University of Virginia and the
Washington, D.C.-based Institute for Asian Democracy,
on Thursday and Friday in Northen Auditorium. The con-
ference will be held at the University of Virginia.

The nine laureates will individually present topics of
concern that are central to their ongoing work and will
discuss these topics in an open forum. The Laureates in-
clude Betty Williams (1976-77, N. Ireland), Archbishop
Desmond Tutu (1984, South Africa), His Holiness the Dalai
Lama (1989, Tibet), Rigoberta Menchu Tum (1992, Guate-
mala) and Jody Williams (1997, U.S.).

Everyone is invited to Northern Auditorium to watch
the live proceedings of the conference on both days.

Hackett lectures on Christianity

Rosalind 1.J. Hackett will give a lecture on Tuesday,
Nov. 10 at 7 p.m. in Room A214 of the new Science Addi-
tion. The title of her talk is “Africa: A New Power Base for
Christianity.”

Hackett, the Lindsay Young Professor of the Humani-
ties at the University of Tennessee, teaches in the depart-
ment of religious studies and is an adjunct professor in the
department of anthropology. She has published many ar-
ticles and three books on different aspects of religion in Af-
rica— new religious movements, gender, an and human rights.

Ogletree presents integrity lecture

Charles J. Ogletree Jr.. the Jesse Climenko Professor of 9

Law and faculty director of Clinical Programs at Harvard
Law School, will present the Order of the Coif lecture on
Nov. 10 at noon in the Moot Courtroom of Sydney Lewis
Hall. The public is invited to attend.

Ogletree’s lecture is titled, “Personal and Professional
Integrity in the Legal Profession: Lessons from President
Clinton and Kenneth Starr.”

Ogletree is the founder and director of the Criminal Jus-

tice Institute. He is the author of many works in the ﬁelds I

of criminal justice and professional responsibility. Ogletree
earned his bachelor’s and master’s degrees from Stanford
University and his J .D. degree from Harvard Law School.
The Order of the Coif is a national organization that
recognizes distinguished scholarship among law students.

Potato casserole wins D-hall contest

In its continuing effort to make students “feel at home,” i
the school's dining services department recently spon--

sored its second annual “Recipes From Home” contest.
More than 50 recipes were collected from the parents of
students during student orientation in September.

The recipes were then prepared by W&L’s dining ser-
vices staff and went through two rounds of testing. The
ﬁrst round was done by the dining service staff to narrow
the ﬁeld to eight ﬁnalists and the ﬁnal round of testing was

done by a group of administrators, including President '

John Elrod, and his wife, Mimi.

The winning entry was a sweet potato casserole dish
turned in by the parents of freshman Emily Rose Whitmire.
The recipe was featured during the Parents Weekend pic-

nic on the Front Lawn and all of the winning entries from ‘

the four categories (entree, vegetable, side dish and des- '

sert) will be served in a special dinner for the students
during the spring.

Other top entries included North Carolina shrimp cre- 3

ole, oven beef stew, fried okra, potatoes royale, raspberry
Jell-O salad, fudge pie and chocolate chess pie.

Woodrow Wilson Fellow visits W&L 4

Peter D. Hart, one of the leading analysts of public opin- :

ion in the United States, will visit W&L next week as part
of the Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fellow program.

Hart will present a public lecture titled “The Election: 
What it Means and Where We Go From Here,” at 4 p.m. *

Nov. 10 in Northen Auditorium. Hart will also meet with the
Mock Convention executive and steering committees and
will take part in classes in politics andjoumalism.

Under his direction, Peter D. Hart Research Associates ‘

has conducted more than 3,500 public opinion surveys
that have included interviews with more than two million

indiygjduals. Hart Research clients include current Senate 9

members Jay Rockefeller, Robert Byrd and Bill Bradley.

The Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fellows program brings
national leaders to the campuses of small liberal arts col-
leges for a week of classes, informal discussions with stu-
dents and faculty and career counseling.

 

selltrinsearn cash.  C 
uairee!!!

SIS is nawnirintl campus
lowestratestolamaica.
Mexicaarlariaa
1-300-548-4849 0|‘
wvnu.ststraueI.com

Econo Lodge

Spender nlglmuota fortnnn.

540-463-7371

* Parents Discount *
* Newly Renovated *
* Free HBO W/Remote *
* No Smoking Rooms *
* Free Continental Breakfast *

JAMES G. LEYBURN LIBRARY
wasnmorow & LEE umvensmr
uzxmeron. VA 24450

 

Shear Timing
Hair Salon

Mondays-Haircuts $2.00 Off
When You Mention This Ad

‘IM 464-1145 4‘°”‘*'

snnnc  

   

Book now and receive a tree meal clan!!!

Cancun & lamaica $399
Bahamas $459

Panama Bill 399

Cancun lliahls tram Washinalan, Dulles, Baltimore and

Charlotte.

I-illll-234-llllll
www.endlesssummenaamcam

NOV 0 3 1998

 

 

,. NOVEMBER 2, 1998

@112 {King-tum iﬂhi

OPINION

 

PAGE 3

,A|l-night hoopla
ends with web
‘ registration

It’s winter term registration time again. We all know
14 what that means — get the sleeping bags and snack foods
and head to the academic building of your most desired
class. Oh wait — that's last year‘s freshman class before
there was online registration.

I can talk trash about last year’s freshmen because I am
one of them, not one of those who actually camped out,
but one who laughed and slept for a full eight hours that
night.

I even went to
Newcomb to
bring extra blan-
kets to my friends.
But not once was
I tempted by the
‘ hoards of people in the halls to pull up my own pillow.

I

  
  

Sir Isaac Lines
hanie Bianoo ’01

 

.ttersto The

  
  
  

 

 

Dear

at-v~°»  ?  

Ball. These girls are not necessarily  bya boy-

friend or even a good friend, butjust‘ by some] random ’
guy who needed a date. Well, newsﬂashfellas -4 there _ H
are random girls-here whofneed dates, too. These girls‘ .

pretty much rely on trier w&L'».,gays; Ifga.-W&L guy

doesn’t ask a girl, then the ~cha.nc'es argejthatishe will not  L
be going; It’sisad but true, Iﬂgjet annoyed when I hear.-":
that guys tdecide norm askgirlsito _e,vents".3:B‘oys need  g 

to suck it up and ask: W&L} _ g,
tions! Mostiimportantly, they need ‘I
possible. _ j_. V"  ‘~

W0uldn’f‘iti1I$t‘5¢:

  

I -wantto goltojth Brcetiq mquag 
  ' it

.erY3i¢aP
.. iffy

  

'.Ido'r_1ft. 

~.Ci*“b   

  know Spanky’s

What can I say? I have priorities. I managed to get into
the classes I wanted and needed. I did fine, in spite of the
fact that I got some of those tough professors you hear

¢ warnings about. I even learned more and worked harder
in those classes. Some of my friends who wisely decided
to sleep, like myself, even lucked out and got into the
history class of their choice with a certain unnamed pro-
fessor who warms every student’s heart.

4 I like to sleep. It’s plain and simple. So do many others.
We all turned out okay. I guess it’s part of the “freshman
experience” to go to the extreme trying to ﬁt-in and take

   

x». I . c’

the upperclassmen’s advice of “doing anything for an

awesome class.” Unfortunately this year these fun festivi-
ties known as registration will not take place.
As a sophomore, I cannot mislead any freshmen. I can-

not tell them just how much I
benefited from camping out for .
p: the best classes. Of course, I
would stay away from the truths
of “I never slept out” and “Ev-
ery class and professor at
Washington and Lee is super.”
‘‘ Why can I not have a little fun
with inexperienced minds? Two
words: online registration.
I’ll admit that it is time for
R W&L to catch up to other
schools, but why now? Because
of this change in procedure, this
year we don’t get to ﬁnd out who
the gullible fools are, who is will-

I even went to Newcomb

friends. But not once was I
tempted by the hoards of

to bring extra blankets to my

people in the halls to pull up

my own pillow. What can I
say? Ihave priorities; H

' ~u1ri~1 .1

77

In order to ensure that no one abuses the new system,
W&L abandoned a system of extremes that added to the
charm of a small school. Students used to actually talk to

professors about upcoming
classes and get to know the
secretaries in the various de-
partments. Now we can poten-
tially interact with only a com-
puter screen and a web page.
Now we have to learn multiple
technicalities about a new sys-
tem that is sure to present its
own faults. Even then the only
interaction will be via tele-
phone with the computer help
desk.

No extra spots will be
available in the classes. The
only difference is that stu-

K ing to waste a precious night’s sleep to get a class that, in dents won’t be able to abuse the system and act like

the humble opinion of some upperclassman (a truly defini-
tive source), is easy or fun or rewarding.

the computer lab.

fools. unless someone gets the bright idea to sleep in

..l

W
4
\\
\;I}',_:'. .‘> wlislf \
W iL‘j\.’:i'Y3.l.')/I l
'?—l(';L 'l’o"L1l-
4 \
l
l
.L__
\_.
\.
l‘ \
\
\ ‘\~' ?
I
I
SSI; J

    

STAFF EDITORIAL

my first experience with

     
  
 
  
  
  
   

 %«‘

Online registration pros, cons

Most of us came to a small school
because we thought we’d probably
be able to take all the courses we
wanted. We wouldn’t fear being
closed out of classes, thus needing
seven years to graduate.

But some of us got the late time
slots for the new online registra-
tion. Now we’re screwed.

If your registration time is 2:30

. pm. or 3 p.m.,.good luck getting

your first choice —-— or your sec-
ond or third.

Back in the good old days of
stumbling in a predawn stupor to
the Hill, at least we knew that by
toughing it out, we’d get the privi-
lege of taking that pain-in-the-ass-
required-for-your-major class with
the 523 page weekly paper. Or
better yet, we could pick up a six-
pack (maybe splurge on Natty
Light bottles) and a sleepingvbag,

or may not just predetermine your
destiny as a ﬁfth-year senior.

Well this online registration thing
has its good and bad. We’re no
longer forced to go through late-
night bonding with our fellow ma-
jors, but you just know that there’s
going to be a stampede of anal-
retentive nerd-herd leaders push-
ing and shoving innocents out of
the way in their, rush to get to the
fastest computer on campus.

Yeah, we like to complain, but
it doesn’t take Stephen Hawking
to work some of the quirks out of
the system.

Registration should not have
gone online until University
Computing’s servers had the ca-
pability to handle everybody at
once without crashing. There
shouldn’t even be time slots where
students get randomly screwed.

should be asking is “What the hell
is preregistration for.”

It seems like we’ ll get locked out
of the classes we want anyway.
Really, what do the professors do
when they see the preregistration
results? V

We doubt that many actually
take on more sections. They prob-
ably look at the numbers and get
all excited when they realize how
popular they are. Then the vein on
their neck starts to bulge and their
hemorrhoids start to itch when they
realize all the papers they might
have to grade. They probably tear
the preregistration results up like a
fourth grader hiding a progress re-
port. Then they forget they ever
saw the numbers.

What do you think about online
registration? Write to phi@wlu.edu
and let everyone know.

and naughtily get sauced and sub- We need
ject our fellow majors to a round quicker ma-
of burps and other bodily functions chines with
as they were attempting to sleep. more memory.
Now, some little ﬁend in the Besides time

Registrar’s Office is randomly as-
signing you to a time slot that may

slots, the ques-
tion everyone

{{

  

Tex, you’d better
start doing some drinkin’.
—Thomas Bane, “Baner,” to a cowboy who

couldn’t take his full bottle of wine on the univer-
sity van aﬁer Friday’ s Halloween costume party at

Zollman’s

iuote of the week:

 

“Some guy was a shower.”

——-Tiffany Friedel ’02

“Ike and Tina Turner”

—MikeRiley’O2

saw this Weekend?

 

“Natty Light”

—Rob Policelli ’02

What was the best costume you

}}

  

“Marilyn Monroe (it was a guy)”

@112 itiing-tum iﬂlri

Executive Editors
News Editors
W&Life Editors
Opinions Editors
Sports Editors

Last Word Editor
Copy Editors

Photo Editors

Online Editor
Assistant Online Editor

Business Manager
Advertising Directors

Circulation Director

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editors, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and "Talkback" do not
reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

Washington and Lee University

Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Ofﬁce: (540) 462-4049

Tarah Grant
Hollister Hovey
Polly Doig

John Stewart
Ginger Phillips
Erica Prosser
Stephanie Bianco
Stephen Pesce
Frances Groberg
Brendan Harrington
Kevin McManemin
Sarah Meldrurn
Meredith Mlynar
Emily Barnes
Mike Crittenden
Tom Wadlow
Lionel Brown

Jason Williams
John Costello
Matt Lorber
Lionel Brown

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center

Lexington, VA 24450
Fax: (540) 462-4059

E-mail: phi@w1u.edu
http://wlu. edu/~phi

—Amanda Fischer ’02

Annual subsription rate: $30

 

 

PAGE 4

W&L students have lots of musical

by Elianna Marziani
STAFF WRITER

Think of Washington and Lee University for a mo-
ment. What comes to mind? White columns? Pristine
lawns? Academics? Certainly, the academic scene is up
there among the most noted aspects of the university.

W&L is so often noted for its academics, though, that
people sometimes forget to look at the other aspects
that make W&L such a special place. With all the won-
derful music groups on campus, such an oversight

would deﬁnitely be a mistake.
W&L has a capella

gl‘OUpS,

  
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
 
  
  
   
     
       
       
 
   
 
 
  
  

.. “Ma.
choral

groups and
ensembles; these groups pro-
vide fun-ﬁlled and entertaining accom-
paniment to the otherwise stuffy halls of
academia.

Southern Comfort is the oldest a capella group on
campus. It was created in the early 1970s and is now
what the group’s music director and W&L senior
Chris Edwards calls “an all-male a capella group at
W&L with a wide variety of music, from 505’ and
60s’ doowap to more modern stuff.”

This 13-member group includes men from all
classes who meet twice a week for two hours to
sing and have fun together.

What makes them different from other a capella
groups?

“A lot [of other groups] are technically really
good, but they’re just not that exciting to watch. It’s
the show you can put on with it, not being afraid to
make a fool out of yourself a little,” Edwards ex-
plained.

Anyone who has witnessed a Southern Com-
fort concert can attest to the fact that these men
do not have that fear; rather, they love per-
forming.

“It’s almost like having our own little frater-
nity,” Edwards said.

The diversity of the men in the group makes the
group special. The down side?

“The only down side, if there is one, is all the
work to maintain the quality we want to have,”
Edwards asserted.

All the hard work dcfinitcly pays off, however.

The next opportunity to hear Southern Com-
fort sing will be at a Christmas carol event at The
Homestead, where the agenda includes what
Edwards calls “a messed up ‘Twelve Days of
Christmas’ and more traditional stuff.”

Southern Comfort also has two CDs in the
bookstore available for students to buy:
“Everybody Wants Some” and “250

Proof,” released in spring 1995 and 1998
respectively.

The guys don’t have the monopoly on
great voices, though. JubiLee, the female a
capella group on campus, is also going

I strong.

JubiLee was created in 1985, the first
year that women came to W&L, and is now

I a talented I2-member group.

I The group practices twice a week and

. even more during conceit weeks, but they have

I a good time doing it.

“We’re very laid back, it’s got a nice phi-

: losophy to it. We practice a lot. We really have

j a good time together,” Ashley Smith, W&L

I senior and JuliLee music director, said.

‘ The women span decades in their

jchoice of music, running the gamut of

T Gershwin to Enya.

: These women love more than just their
music, however; they also love just spend-
ing time with each other.

“The best part is the other girls in the
group,” Smith said. “We’re a really cohesive unit.
We get such a kick out of each other.”

Smith went on to add, “There’s nothing bad about
it at all. I love it!” _

The only hard part for the girls is scheduling a time for
all of them to meet, since they are all so busy. Still, they
make time for JubiLee.

Though the women cannot go on their big tour this

so "

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Edito_r
Members of the University Chorus review the
new music for their upcoming concert.

year, they are planning some shorter trips and perfor-
mances at alumni parties and similar functions.

They are going to perform at a Christmas concert with
the University Chorus, and they also just released a 10-
song CD, “Last Call,” which is available in the bookstore.

With all the great womens’ and mens’ voices on
campus, it makes sense to put them together.

General Admission, the student-run co-ed a capella
group on campus, did just that when it was started in
1992. It is now a 12-member group that performs at
concerts and other on— and off—campus events. The
group sings all kinds of music.

“We try to pick songs not so ‘choir-y.’ They’re sort of
more popular songs,” explained senior Mollie Harmon,
describing the 60s’, 70s’ and 80s’ music that the group
enjoys singing.

“I think the best part is getting together with
people you have fun with and singing together,”
Harmon added.

The only bad thing she could come up with?
“The worst part is the time crunch between‘
concerts when you realize that the songs

aren’t as good as they should be, and there’s
no time.”

Like most of the other musical groups on
campus, General Admission has a lot of busy
members, so time conﬂicts can also be prob-

lems for the group.

ing at a basketball banquet and Christ-
mas caroling at retirement homes. While
the group does not have any CD5 out
yet, it plans to make its first one dur-
ing winter term.
Two larger choral groups also exist on
campus: University Chorus and Univer-
sity Chamber Singers.
The University Chorus is what con-
ductor Scott Williamson calls “the larg-
est performing organization in the
W&L community.”

The group has more than 80 mem-
bers, including mostly under-
classmen, but also mem-
bers of the faculty, law

school and commu-
nity. The

group
prac-
t i c e s
two to
f o u r
hours ev-
ery week
and per-
forms three
or four con-
certs per
term. Cho-
rus earns
participants
one aca-
demic credit
perterm.
They per-
form a wide
range of mu-
sic, including
jazz, mainstream
classical reper-
toire, new con-
temporary and
more.
“Our purpose is to
communicate, to share and
t o have fun,” Williamson said. “Making
music with a community of people is the best part of chorus.
The message of many people speaking is greater than one
person.”

Freshman Kristin Herman also enjoys the commu-
nity aspect of chorus.

“Singing with Scott is great, and getting to know ev-
eryone, getting to meet people I otherwise wouldn’t get
to meet is great.”

Williamson believes that the hardest part of chorus is
the scheduling, but Herman declared, “I haven’t had a worst
part yet. I really haven’t. Practice for me is a stress relief It
gives me time to wind down. I kind of look forward to it.”

Though chorus is definitely a lot of work and a time
commitment, it can be humorous, too. Williamson thinks
that a good plan for the future might be “a fashion show
with a variety of ways chorus dresses could be used.”

Anyone who has seen the chorus dresses can appreci-
ate what he is talking about.

Then again, this comment came from the man who, as
Herman explained, went to the faculty recital and “came
out dressed as a woman, with a wig and heels, and sat on
this guy’s lap.”

When can you hear this zany group perform? They
will be part of the Opera Gala that the University-
Shenandoah Symphony Orchestra is performing on Sat-
urday, Nov. 7 at 8 p.m. On Dec. 8 at 7 p.m., they will host
their holiday concert.

Though chorus does not have a CD out yet, they look
forward to making one in the future.

 

NOVEMBER 2, 1998

Their upcoming events include sing- _

  

talent, fun

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

Senior Nathan Hager (front) and Rob Baldwin ’00 play some jany tunes during practice for Jazz Ensemble.

After spending a year in chorus, students are eli-
gible to apply for a spot in University Chamber Singers,
which is directed by Gordon Spice.

“Chamber Singers is a small mixed vocal ensemble that
sings primarily a capella music,” Spice said. “The group
tries to perform the best choral literature that [it] can find
for the ensemble.”

This organization was created in its present form in 1992
and consists of only upperclassmen.

The group takes tours, too; its last tour was to the Czech
Republic last spring, and its next one most likely will be to
southern Spain in the coming year.

Spice said that it is the students who make Chamber

Singers so great, and “the fact that they’re so tal-

ented to start with, that they learn
quickly and work hard.”

The students --
also attribute the group’s success to the
director.

“Dr. Spice is a great director; he picks great music.
[Chamber Singers] is a great way to spend an hour, it’s
a great break,” Harmon said. “That’s my favorite part of
the day.”

She couldn’t think of a bad thing about the group, say-
ing, “I love everything about it, honestly.”

The only possible negative Spice could think of was
the fact that the group is very busy, but he added, “I’m
glad the university thinks it’s important to call on the group
to sing at [various university] functions.”

The student body will get its next chance to hear this
elite group at the annual Lessons and Carols service to be
held at Lee Chapel on Dec. 10.

Also, their CD, “W&L Chamber Singers: European Tour
1998,” recorded live in Jaromeice last spring, is available
for $1 0 in the bookstore or from Spice. A

Though the university definitely has talented singers,

 

Allen said that his favorite part of jazz was learning
through playing, since, as he put it, “Jazz is music that was

. meant to be played.”

The only negative Allen could come up with?

“It gets really, really hot when I play drums. I have to
keep my clothes on, that’s the negative part!”

The Jazz Ensemble will be playing at the Nov. 12 beneﬁt
concert for the Montessori School at 8 p.m. at the Lenfest
Center for the performing arts.

On Nov. 17, the group will perform its first solo concert
at 8 p.m. at Lenfest. Finally, Dec. 3, Vosbein warns us to “be
prepared for holiday numbers played a la jazz” as the Jazz
and Wind Ensembles kick off their annual holiday concert.

The University Wind Ensemble, created by Barry
Kolman in 1987, “was formed to give the students a more
w e I l -
'  r o u n d e d

musical ex-

perience,”
Kolman said.
W h e n
Kolman ar-
rived, there was
no large ensemble, merely
chamber _ groups. Byjoining these small
groups to- gether, he created the large Wind Ensemble
here today.

“The experience of watching this group grow so expo-
nentially has been a most gratifying one,” Kolman said.

He went on to say that Wind Ensemble is “a high qual-
ity musical ensemble that plays only the finest wind
literature there is.”

The group practices three hours every Monday night,
with extra practices before concerts.

Freshman Abby Montgomery said, “There’s a variety
[of music played], some more standard band literature,
some more contemporary stuff.”

She said that the best part of Ensemble is “perfonning,
because it means that it is all worth it!”

The group is planning a tour for the spring of 2000 and
hopes it will be as successful as its recent tour to Las

  
   

Vegas and
Disneyland.
Their next

concert is Nov. 3
at 8 p.m. in
Lenfest. Also, the
group plans to re-
lease its first CD
this spring.

The Univer-
sity-Shenandoah
Symphony Or-
chestra was cre-
ated between 25
and 30 years ago.

The group
now boasts 75
members, includ-
ing student per-
cussionists and
wind and string

The women of JubiLee serenade a lucky W&L dad in Lee Chapel during
the Parents’ Weekend A Capella Concert, which also featured the all
male group Southern Comfort and the co-ed group General Admission.

W&L’s wealth of talented musicians is not limited to vocal-
ists. The Jazz Ensemble, University Wind Ensemble and
University-Shenandoah Symphony Orchestra also have
many talented members.

The Jazz Ensemble is celebrating its third year at W&L,
since Terry Vosbein founded it in the fall of 1996. It now
boasts 14 musicians who meet twice a week to practice.

Vosbein said the group’s purpose is “to give the stu-
dents the opportunity to play the wealth of repertoire avail-
able for big bands, from early swing era compositions to
new works and even world premieres.”

The band plays all kinds ofjazz.

Drummer and W&Ljunior Anthony Allen said, “Most
ofthe music we play is old standardjazz tunes, but we also
throw in Brazilian tunes, Latin songs, and on top of that
songs that everyone knows. We like to mix it up a lot, with
songs that really drive the band and really get the audi-
ence into what we’re playing.”

players, as well
as professional
musicians, fac-
ulty members and
talented high
_ school students.

Kolman said, “[The Orchestra’s purpose is to] provide
important and high quality cultural events for the Univer-
sity and Lexington-Rockbridge Community.”

The group performs three or four concerts per year.

For those eager to hear this talented group, the Or-
chestra will serve as the pit orchestra for the production of
Bemstein’s (‘umlidu in the spring.

Obviously. the Waisliington and Lee community has a
wealth of niusicul mlcnl behind the academic scenes that
its members are li;lpp_\' to learn with and from.

Thesc groiips tlcfinitely add to the cultural and even
academic environments, but best of all, both perform-
ers and listeners Iiave a really good time with the per-
formanccs.

As llzins Christian Andersen said, “When words fail,
music speaks."

W&L is lucky to have such wonderful music to speak
to it and its students.

Photo by Emily Bames/Plioto Editor

0

 

 

NOVEMBER 2, 1998

&U

{Ring-tum iﬁhi

IFE 

PAGE 5

* Junior explores colors of music

by Jonathan Barker

STA FF WRITER

From a music scene dominated by Satur-
day night band parties and a town that is, well,
Lexington, a performance art duo has appeared
that is, at the very least, something different.
This duo consists of Josh Harvey on piano
and Virginia Lloyd Davies on the easel.

Yes, easel, as in paint. This improvisational
group combines music and art to create a per-
formance that appeals to two senses at once.
According to Harvey, his participation in this
duo has verged on the surreal.

Harvey, a Washington and Lee University
junior who grew up in Lexington, has been per-

forming in this area for 12 years.
He has recorded and performed
extensively with Agents of Good
Roots and their side project,
River.

In fact, he will be featured on
that “Dylan-esque poppy-jazz”
band’s upcoming album. He also
plays with the Washington and
Lee Jazz Band and accompanies
the chorus.

For the past several months, however, his
main work has been with Davies, an innovator in
the ﬁeld of Chinese brush art. Harvey, a former
skeptic about performance art, was originally
hesitant to accompany a painter. It took two
hours of simply watching Davies paint to con-

 

only thing that Harvey can
compare it to is the spiritual feel-
ing he gets while playing in
church. Yet he says this has an
intellectual facet to it that is
completely unique.

“lt’s kind of snobbish in a
way, but also really stimulating,
serene and meditative,” he said.
Harvey said he can only hope
the audience is half as affected
by the art as he is.

It is Harvey’s hope that Lexington will expe-
rience a cultural renaissance, in which he will
get to play a small part. With the introduction
of the Ruse, the new coffee shop in town, and

s.

Harvey

 

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
Josh Harvey accompanies the University Chorus on piano.

WLUR radio,
campus voice

by Ken J ackman

STAFF WRITER

How many times have you turned on a radio station and
thought, “This music is horrible. I wish I couldmntrol what is
being played.” With your own radio sh, w, you could. i

That is exactly what WLUR-Flvl 91. offers students: a chance
to be creative and learn what it is like to fill two hours of airtime
with your own music and opinions. If Washington and Lee Uni-
versity has one voice that is truly available to every student, it is
WLUR, the campus radio station.

This student—run station plays all sorts of music every day start-
ing as early as 7 a.m. and ending at midnight. The station offers a
great mix of music, which the student disc jockeys are able to
control themselves.

WLUR makes sure
that its music stays di-
verse by designating
certain time slots for cer-
tain types of music.

For example, there is a
jazz & blues slot from 8
p.m. to 10 p.m., and there
is a classical slot from 6
p.m. to 8 p.m. Both slots
offer students a chance
to expand their knowl-

   

   

edge of music.  _

Freshmen Jesse 
R0 C k 0 ff a_n d. M an Photo by Hollister Hovey/Executive Editor
Conner are disc jockeys

Sophomore Kathie Soroka pumps

for the Wednesday upthejamatWLUR

show from 7 a.m. to 9
a.m. They nicknamed their show “The Yankee Hour” and are very
enthusiastic about their job at WLUR.

“The best part is to have two hours to play things that you
like, to experiment andto introduce music to people that maybe
they have never heard before,” Rockoff and Conner said.

Not only do they enjoy playing their music, but they also find
that they like to discuss, and even make fun of, certain things that
are going on around campus. Most importantly, however, is that
they enjoy themselves even while making amateur mistakes with
the unfamiliar equipment.

Rockoff and Conner said that they usually get about two re-
quests per show, which unfortunately suggests that not many
students are listening to the different radio shows.

Many students have the opinion of Dustin Olson, who said,
“I only listen to my friends.” Students who don’t know anyone
with a radio show often don’t listen at all.

This is a shame because, as former WLUR DJ Frank Steams
describes it, “College radio is a good way for people to get ex-
posed to different styles of music and lesser-known bands.”

It is also a good way to learn about the trials and tribulations
that come along with being a disc jockey and a voice on campus,
something that can be fun, tiring and memorable all at once.

SUBSCRIBE

Subscribe to Eh:
King-tum ﬂirt."
Send a check for

$30toJason\VH-
liams, Business

Manager, The

Ring-tum Phi,

lhﬁversﬂy Cen-

ter, Lexington, VA

24450

Solution to crossword puzzle on page 8

C1
>

>

3

mmzo ozma
z>: 2mFm<>aH

E
L
I

rrI:>=
26-Irn
-IZHIE

PH

=>z—3mw
—iri-icnwrngcam urn:
l'ﬂl'-SH’!

v-com >rI'I|§-19¢‘!

——=v >b>p
3|-n<D mu-I<D3 g"""l—
m:>: 4zmgmm>z>§
-<61-vgrn

mar-:u en-U3
>a>§ :mz>n no
F>2l'fI'§

EFHISHI
tn-<>2 Uavarn-A

>§>§

—ozrng>z:u¢:o—I

H'I"II'7'I—'
9Z—-l=s.J1I
o>§
=¢'I-1|'l'|

GZQO

with more musicians being invited to play in
the area, he says that the art scene in Lexington
is deﬁnitely improving.

‘‘I’d rather play in front of 50 people in
Lenfest that care about the art than 6,000 some-
where else that don’t,” he said.

He believes that with more opportunities to
perform in town, the talent on campus will be
not only recognized, but also nurtured.

While the duo’s art has taken them to lo-
cales including New York, and will take them to
the National Heart Association Conference in
Dallas next weekend, the pair has also performed
on campus and plans to do so again.

The next performance will take place in the
Law School on Nov. 14 from 4 p.m. until 6 p.m.
All are invited to attend. For skeptics and en-
thusiasts alike, this promises to be a perfor-
mance like no other.

vince him that the act

could work.
‘ _ Once he began to “jam”

with her, he found they had
a “subconscious and pre-
cognitive connection.”
Often, while practicing,
, both artists would get “in
a zone.” Afterward, he
says they would both
simply stare for up to half
an hour at the painting
that had been created.
“Neither of us could
speak, but we each knew
that the other person was
experiencing the exact
same thing,” he said. The

ANNOUNCING AN EVENING OF STORYTELLING_;AND.;:
19TH ‘CENTURY MUSIC. THAT INSPIRED .Tnz-,s‘r;;\TIonj1i.
. NOV. 6 AND 7vAT 7 P.M. 

FAIRFIELD FIRE STATION HALL, " 
U.s. ROUTE 11, FAIRFIELD, -'vA
OPEN HOUSE A1="rra:RwARr5s AT 
OAK spams FARM BED, SC BREAKFAST“
TICKETS: $5.00 PER PERSON», _
CALL (540) 377-—2398 r-‘on QUESTIONS,

 

 THE ARMY CAN HELP YOU
GETA $lI0,000 EDGE
ON COLLEGE.

The Army can help you get an edge on life and earn up to

$40,000 for college through the Montgomery GI Bill plus the Army
, College Fund.

Here’s how it works. Enlist
for four years. You then con-
tribute $100 a month for the
ﬁrst year from your $11,100
ﬁrst year salary. The Army
then contributes the remain-
der. Enlist for three years and
"‘ you earn $33,000 or enlist for
two years and earn $26,500.

— Army opportunities get
0 « ‘~ better every day. Ifyou
qualify, you could train in one of over 200 challenging and reward-
ing high-tech skills in ﬁelds like avionics and electronics, satellites
and microwave communications, computer and radar operations-
just to name a few.

T It makes sense to earn while you learn. For more information
about getting money for college, call your Army Recruiter today.

703-886-2651
ARMY. BE ALL You CAN BE?

www.goarmy.com

  

Photo courtesy of E. Hilton Hines
The University-Shenandoah Symphony Orchestra is a semiprofes—
sional musical group composed of members from both the Washing-
ton and Lee student body and the Shenandoah Valley community.
The group is directed by Barry Kolman, and has hosted such guests
as The Netherlands Wind Ensemble. This talented orchestra also
presents many student, family and classical concerts in the Lenfest
Center. The USSO has performed such themes as music from film
classics like fWest Side Story’ and ‘Treasure of the Sierra Madre.’

 

Presentation

Morgan means more
career opportunities

J.P. Morgan is a leading global financial firm that provides strategic
advice, raises capital, trades financial instruments, and manages assets
for corporations, governments, Financial institutions, and private clients.

Please plan to attend our information presentation for
Washington & Lee students interested in

Investment Banking
Monday, November 2

7:00 - 9:00 pm
University Center — Room l l4

J P Morgan

www.ipmorgan.com

J.P. Morgan is an equal opportunity employer.

  
 
    
     

  

g car in history, base
“ fig9.r.es..———-—’
.,.,

l
l

 ad“  P Wm Equippi

    

__..

 

 *6 ,_L.  » Than Last Yearll
. - .--~—-~ ,1 e99 Corolla Pot L955 _ .. 

_,.............--

 

1

~—.

1

PAGE 6

 

@112 Tiling-tum 13111

SPORTS

NOVEMBER 2, 1998

by Steele Cooper

STAFF WRITER

Saturday the Generals defeated Roanoke College
in their ﬁnal ODAC and regular season match (15-
10, 15-1, 15-7). Washington and Lee’s overall record
stands at 23-2 and 10-0 ODAC for the regular sea-
son. This has placed W&L at the top of the stand-
ings going into the ODAC tournament this week-
end.

With the end of the regular season came a list of
new individual and team records. Junior Nancy
Reinhart, 1997 ODAC player of the year, broke the
record she set last year for the most digs in a sea-
son, 353. Her nine digs against Roanoke brought
her l998 digs total to 361.

Reinhart now also has the career digs record
for W&L with 1,041. Another new season record
was set on Tuesday when the Generals faced
Eastern Mennonite. W&L totaled 13 aces against
EMU, which brought the 1998 season total to 237,
breaking the 1990 record of 225 aces.

Against Roanoke, senior Megan Snodgrass,
playing the ﬁnal home of her career, set a new record
for the most career games played (3 86).

“[Saturday’s game] was a little sad and emo-
tional. It was also exciting because we had a chance
to win our fourth consecutive ODAC regularsea-

the new record for most games played felt great be-
cause it made me feel like 1 had really contributed
over the last four years.” Snodgrass totaled seven
kills against Roanoke.

Saturday’s win was the ﬁnal home match for se-
nior setter Lee Ann Gschwind. “I wasn’t really think-
ing about the fact that it was my last home game
during the match itself. We still have ODACs to play.
This has been one of the successful seasons 1 think
we’ve had,” Gschwind said. She led the setters with
a team high of 18 assists against Roanoke. Fresh-
man Lindsay Ruckert ﬁnished the match with nine
kills.

On Tuesday, W&L defeated Eastern Mennonite
University at the Warner Center (9-15, 15-6, 1 1-15,
15-5, 15-6). EMU was ranked ﬁrst in the ODAC at

son title, and we did it,” Snodgrass said. “Settings

V-ball buries ’Noke to go perfect in ODAC

Give me another “n”! Friends of senior Lee Ann Gschwind show their support at the volley-
ball game on Saturday. The Generals defeated the Roanoke Maroons 3-0.

the beginning of the season and has proved to be the
Generals’ toughest ODAC competition. This win im-
proved the Generals’ overall record to 22-2 and 9-0
ODAC.

Reinhart and freshman Ricka Hildebrand led W&L’s
offence with 16 kills each. “We were up and down
against Eastern Mennonite. In the three games that we
won, we played really well,” Hildebrand said. “We’re
still working on our consistency and playing our level
of volleyball, not down to the level of our opponent.”

Reinhart also had 3 aces and 23 digs against EMU.
Sophomore setter Pam Saulsbury led the setters with a
team high 30 assists.

   

 

Photo y o ister ovey/Execu we Edito

On Friday, November 6, the Generals will travel
to Bridgewater College for the first round of the
ODAC tournament. W&L is the first seed and fa-
vorite to repeat as ODAC tournament champions. If
the Generals do win the ODAC tournament, they
will be almost assured of their first ever NCAA
tournament birth.

After already defeating every ODAC team dur-
ing the regular season, the Generals are confident
and optimistic about the tournament.

“Right now, we’re concentrating on our first
match of the tournament,” Hildebrand said. “But
we’re gonna be the team to beat.”

Men’s soccersuffers from overtime blues

by Tod Williams

STAFF WRITER

After a week’s play, the men’s soccer team faces some
good news and some bad news.

The bad news ﬁrst: the Generals lost on Saturday to
Salisbury State, their ﬁrst loss in their last 1 1 outings, and
only their third loss on the year.

There are actually two pieces of good news. First,
Salisbury State University is not an Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference member, so the game will have no ef-
fect on the conference playoffs, which begin Tuesday.
Second, the Generals didn’t lose to arch-rival Roanoke,
but tied the Maroons.

The 2-1 loss to the Sea Gulls came in the ﬁrst sudden-
death overtime after a 1-1 tie stood at the end of regulation.
Washington and Lee freshman midﬁelder Paul Wallace
scored an unassisted goal 31:34 minutes into the game,
giving the Generals a 1-0 lead, which they would hold until
85:56 mark. Wallace’s goal was his third on the year.

With only 14:04 minutes remaining in the game, Sea
Gull freshman midﬁelder Paul Kelly scored on an unas-
sisted shot, evening the game at 1-1 . Neither team scored
in the remainder of regulation, sending the game to sud-
den-death overtime.

Again, both teams failed to score in overtime until 14:56,

This Week

Tuesday
Men’s soccer 1st round ODAC vs.
Harnpden-Sydney TBA

Friday
Men’s soccer ODAC semiﬁnals TBA*

Volleyball ODAC tournament @
Bridgewater TBA

Saturday
Football vs. Emory and Henry 1 :30

Men’s soccer ODAC ﬁnals TBA*

Men’s and Women’s Cross Country
ODAC Championships @ Hampden-
Sydney

Men’s and Women’s Swimming @ Centre
and Transylvania

Volleyball ODAC toumament@ ‘
Bridgewater TBA*

*Provided the team wins in the
previous round

with just four seconds remaining in the period, when
Salisbury sophomore Steve Ritchie scored on a pass from
teammate Darren LaRocque, giving the Gulls the 2-1 win.

Jordan Ginsberg, a sophomore who
marmed the net for the Generals in only C ‘
his second start on the season, posted
seven saves.

“It was great to get in there and get
the experience and help the team,”
Ginsberg said. “It was a game we
should have won, but luck just didn’t
go our way.”

On Wednesday, the Generals
failed to score in two hours of play
against the Roanoke College Ma-
roons. Luckily, the Maroons also
failed to score, resulting in the Gen- V
erals’ third tie of the season.

The tie, Roanoke’s second of the year, sent the Ma-
roons, who had been ranked seventh, to the 18th spot in
NCAA Division 111 national rankings.

The 0-0 game was a wild match plagued by an array of
interruptions. Just three minutes into the game, the sprin-
kler system on the ﬁeld in Salem, Va., came on, causing a
delay. Play was also stopped for several injuries, as well
as for an abundance of penalties.

It was a game
we should have
won, but luck
just didn’t go
our way.

—JORDAN GINSBERG

Roanoke received ﬁve yellow cards, and the Gener-
als were issued another four yellow cards, two of which
resulted in a red card for senior keeper E. J. Murphy.

Murphy’s two yellow cards, which
came within the ﬁrst 37 minutes of play,
brought in Ginsberg for relief. The
sophomore came up big for the Gener-
als, making nine saves in his 83 min-
utes of play.

The red card forced the Generals to
play one man down for the remainder of
the game. Ginsberg called both of the yel-
low cards “questionable calls.”

“The ref lost control of the game, and
that was his way of trying to get it back,”
Ginsberg said. “But we worked hard, and
9 7 we salvaged the tie.”

The Maroons outshot W&L 19-1 1.
Two Roanoke goals were negated because of fouls. In the
game’s second sudden death, overtime, the Maroons
outshot the Generals 5- 1.

W&L’s next action will come on Tuesday in the first round
of the ODAC playoffs at Liberty Hall Fields against the
Hampden-Sydney Tigers. Regardless of the outcome,
Tuesday’s ODAC tournament game will most likely be their
last home game of the year.

Women’s soccer loses semiﬁnal

by Frances Groberg

SPORTS EDITOR

You win some, you lose some, right? Let’s face it; That’s
not much consolation.

The women’s soccer tearn’s season ended on Friday
with its loss to Roanoke College in the semiﬁnals of the
ODAC tournament. The Generals, who were seeded ﬁrst
for the tournament, failed to beat the fourth seeded Ma-
roons for the second time this season.

“I think it does hurt a little more because it was
Roanoke,” senior captain Karin Treese said. “We didn’t
play at our level for the full 90 minutes, and they took
advantage of that.”

Roanoke junior Katie Slane started the scoring for the
game at the 3:09 mark, sliding a goal past junior goalie
Stephanie McKnight.

“We were out there on the ﬁeld, but not really ready to
play yet, and Roanoke took advantage of that,” sopho-
more midﬁelder Shana Levine said. '

Sophomore forward Margaret Hunter-Tumer retaliated
for Washington and Lee in the 14th minute, rocketing a
shot into the upper right hand comer of the net. The 1-1 tie
stood at halftime.

“Hunter-Tumer was in a position to cross, but she
shot the ball instead, and it rocketed over the goalie,”
Levine said. “1t was a really sweet goal.”

Just as W&L had dominated the ﬁrst half of play,
Roanoke took control of the second. The Generals held off
Roanoke for as long as possible, but freshman defender
Corri Grant scored with just over six minutes left in the half
to put the Maroons up 2-1 for the game.

“We didn’t have the chemistry we’d been experiencing

for the last couple of weeks,” Head Coach Jan Hathom
said. “I’m sure they wanted it very much, and I’m very
proud of them. It just didn’t happen on Friday.”

See SOCCER, Page 7

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
Get off my back! Senior Elizabeth Richey
dribbles up the ﬁeld in the ODAC semiﬁnals.

Generals nab
400th victory

RB Marc Watson rushes to
record-breaking day leading
Generals to victory 20-12

by Brendan Harrington

SPORTS EDITOR

Marc Watson has been the most valuable player for the
Washington and Lee football team all season long and
Saturday afternoon was no different. The sophomore
tailback ran for a career high 160 yards and one touch-
down to lead the Generals to a 20-12 Halloween victory
over Bridgewater, giving the Generals their 400th victory
in the history of the program. I

With 210 total yards on Saturday, Watson broke the
W&L single-season all-purpose yards record of 1251 yards
previously held by Chris Leiser since the 1979 season.
Watson now has 1,380 all-purpose yards with two games
left to play.

“He’s a good one, that’s for sure,” head coach Frank ‘

Miriello said describing Watson. “ He’s been big for us all
season long.”

The Generals (3-5, 1-3 ODAC) scored first for only the
second time all season to take an early 7-0 lead on a 1-yard
touchdown pass from junior quarterback Christian
Batcheller to senior tight end David Ritchey of a nice play-
action fake on third and goal with 6:23 remaining in the
first quarter. The Generals struck again with 10:18 left in

the second quarter when sophomore wide receiver Wes-

Hardy caught a 12-yard touchdown pass from Batcheller.
Brad Wiginton’s extra point was blocked, and the Generals
led 13-0.

Batcheller ﬁnished the day 14-23 for 122 yards, two
touchdowns and no interceptions.

“Christian really showed ﬂashes of great quarterback
play today,” Miriello said. “ When he has time to throw
the ball he looks like a professional.”

The Eagles (0-8, 0-4 ODAC) got on the board using an
awesome display of kicking power as senior place kicker
Mike Pageant booted a 51-yard ﬁeld goal with 6:45 left in
the half that would have been good from 70-yards out.
Pageant is no stranger to drilling long ﬁeld goals as he has
hit four out of ﬁve from beyond 50 yards this season,
which is almost unheard of in Division 111.

With 51 seconds left in the half the Eagles blocked a
W&L punt and recovered on the Generals ﬁve-yard line.
The Generals defense stepped it up and kept the Eagles
out of the endzone and Pageant kicked a 19-yard ﬁeld goal
to make the score 13-6 at the half.

With 6:07 left in the third quarter, freshman quarterback
Jason Lutz ran it in from 14-yard yards out on a we1l-de-
signed quarterback draw following a Marc Watson fumble.

Pageant’s extra point attempt was blocked by senior
defensive lineman Ben Middendorf, and the Eagles still
trailed 13-12.

Both teams battled for ﬁeld position until the Generals
ﬁnally got back on the board on a 12-yard touchdown run
by Watson with 4:57 left in the fourth quarter, making the
score 20-12.

See FOOTBALL, Page 7

Game Statistics

SCORE av QUARTERS 1 2 3 4
W&L (3-5) 7 6 0 7 — 20
Bridgewater (0-8) 0 6 6 0 — 12
W&L BC
First Downs 18 13
Rushes-Yds (Net) 43-162 48-176
Passing Yds (Net) 122 50
Passes Att-Com-Int 23-14-0 14-6-0
Total Offensive Plays-Yds 66-284 62-226

Fumble Returns-Yds 1-0 ‘ 1-0
Punt Retums-Yds 3-7 '3 3-39
Kickoff Retums-Yds 3-34 3-67
Interception Retums-Yds 0-0 0-0
Punts (No. Average) S-32.0 4-39.8
Fumbles-Lost 1-1 3- 1
Penalties-Yds 6-43 3-23
Possession Time 30:27 29:33
Sacks By Number-Yds 2-9 2-16

RUSHING: W&L —— Watson 28-160,
Hanley Sayers 7-14, Kyle Overstreet 2-5,
Scott Moses 1-2, C. Batcheller 5—minus 19.
BC — Jason Lutz 21-95, Mario Webb 15-45,
Earl Payton 9-29, Davon Cruz 2-5, Josh

Shank 1-2.

PASSING: W&L — Batcheller 14-23-0-
122. BC——~ Jason Lutz 6-14-0-50.
RECEIVING: W&L —— J.T. Malatesta 5-51,
Watson 2-22, Hardy 2-20, David Ritchey 2-10,
Scott Moses 1-12, Hanley Sayers 1-6, Kyle
Overstreet 1-1. BC — Antiquine Parks 1-17,
Mario Webb 1-12, Doug Shirley 1-10, R.
Ziegenfuss 1-5, Davon Cruz 1-3, Earl Payton
1-3.

INTERCEPTIONS: W&L —~ None. BC —
None.

 

l

 

1' NOVEMBER 2, 1998

 

@112 Ring-tum iﬁhi

SPORTS

PAGE 7

by Brendan Harrington

Spams EDITOR

The Washington and Lee 4

men’s and women’s cross coun-

I try teams are having successful
: seasons and are now preparing

for the ODAC Championships,

which will take place on Satur-
, day, Nov. 7 at Hampden Sydney.
’ «Both teams ran well at the

Gettysburg (Pa.) Invitational on
October 24. The men’s team ﬁn-
ished 22nd of 36 teams and was
paced by senior Darrick Alford,
who finished in 49th place.

The women’s team finished

20th of 32 competing schools and
was paced by sophomore Wendy
Case, who came in 64th place.

The men’s team lost to Mary Wash-
ington 39-18, finished 6th of 13 teams
at the Davis and Elkins Invitational,
22nd of 31 teams at the Dickinson In-
vitational, sixth of 11 teams at the

State Division II and III Champion- »
ships, and second of three teams at

the Southern Virginia Invitational.
Senior Josh Beckham ﬁnished
17th at the Davis and Elkins Invita-
tional and 80th at the Dickinson In-
vitational. Alford ﬁnished ﬁrst at
Southern Virginia, sixth at the state
meet, and 49th at the Gettysburg In-

Cross Country season
running along at great pace

vitational.

The women lost to Mary
Washington 50-15,. finished 6th of
eight teams at the Davis and
Elkins Invitational, 21st of 25
teams at Dickinson, third of nine
teams at the State Champion-
ships, and first among four teams
at Southern _Virginia. _

Freshman Gretchen Tenzca fin-

. . ished 18th at the Davis and Elkins

Invitational and second at

Southern’ Virginia. Case finished A

sixth at the Virginia State Cham-
pionships, 64th at Gettysburg,
and 110th at the Dickinson Invi-
tational.

FOOTBALL

continued from page 6

The Generals weren’t out of the woods yet as
Bridgewater could still tie the game with a touchdown and
two—point conversion. The Eagles drove all the way down
to the W&L 23-yard line before they fumbled a hand-off,
which was recovered by W&L defensiveend Ross Kester
with 1:14 left in game. With the Eagles out oftime—outs,
Batcheller took a knee and the Generals hung on for their
second straight victory.

Middendorf and senior linebacker Brad Baker were
named by the Generals coaching staff as the defensive
players of the game. Baker had a season-high 18 tackles
while also picking up a sack. Middendorf had 13 tackles,
0.5 sacks, and a blocked kick. The Generals defense held
Bridgewater to only 226 total yards and only 50 passing
yards. The last two weeks the defense has only allowed a
combined total of only 58 passing yards.

Watson was named by the coaches as the offensive
player of the game for his stellar performance while senior
Lee Swomley was named the special teams player of the
game.

“ The defense came up big when they had too,” Miriello
said. “ We’ve really improved our play against the option
this year, we’ve worked very hard.”

The Generals host Emory and Henry next Saturday at
Wilson Field and finish at Swarthmore on Nov. 14.

SOCCER

continued from page 6

In the previous meeting of these two rivals at the begin-
ning of October, the Maroons were also able to come out
on top by a score of 2-1.

At least on paper, that game looked very similar to
Friday’s match. Roanoke scored ﬁrst, forcing W&L to tie

things up, and then took the final goal of the game for a 3

similar 2-1 victory.
The October game against the Maroons was W&L’s
first loss of the season. Friday’s contest was their last.
To reach the semiﬁnals, the Generals defeated Emory

.~

‘1;

and Henry in the first round of the ODAC tournament by a 

score of 7-0.

In the one-sided contest, both Treese and freshman 
midﬁelder Kate Bidwell scored two goals apiece, and W&L -

outshot E&H 39- 1.
“It was a great season,” Treese said. “We accomplished

a lot of our goals, and the team has some great freshman '

and sophomores who will carry the program for the next 2

couple of years.”

Hathom agreed. “It was a great year. ljust hope that 
some of the sting [from the loss] will last to next year, and I

will help ﬁre us up for the next season.”

If the go—get-’em attitude ofthis year’s team is any
indication of the future, Hathom will have nothing to
worry about.

 

24 S. Jefferson Street
Lexington, VA 24450
Between The Palms
& Domino's Pizza

- Co.

464-4050

 

Open 10 a.m. ‘til 9 p.ni.
Monday-Friday

11 am. - 5 p.ni.
Saturday

WE FIND IT FOR

BELOW LIST

.°.AY

I2 pHT'_:.'

PRICE  

xogmn and
°3° ,,'\n¢i“3geo%{o

at Alvin-Dennis

§b'

0..
w

Alvin-Dennis, Inc.
102 W. Washington St.

Tuxedo Rentals & Sales for
the 250"‘ Ball

250"‘ Shirts, Hats & T ies

Visa, MC, Student Charge
463-5383

  

e-t"‘V'

“£5

     

  

 ° be

     
   

 

Tired of Bein
   Guaranteed $10,000 In Credit!

Guaranteed Credit Cards with Credit Limits
Up To $10,000 Within Days!

N O CREDIT, NO J OB, NO PARENT SIGNER, NO SECURITY DEPOSIT!

d credit - no income?

If You Think You
Can't Get A Credit
Card, Think Again.

Thrned Down?

I 

;       ORDER FORM

} ' I want Credit Cards immediately. GUARANIEED APPROVAL

: i I  I . CRA, PO BOX 16662, ATLANTA, GA 30321

I Name ...................................................................................................................................................................... ., .................................................................. ..
I Address ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ..
I City ..........................................  ............................................................... .; ....... .. State .............................................  Zip... ................ .. ................................ ..

: Signature .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ..
I

I

I

I

I

 
  
 
     

-.~.o- ~

 

 

Humor Page

PAGE 8

A message for
the thieving
townie who
stole my CDs

by Kevin McManemin

ANOTHER BRICK IN MY WALL

I usually don’t use my column for personal purposes,
(no, I’m just in it for the money and prestige) but this time
l’ve got an important message that must be delivered.
This message is for you, the thieving townie who stole a
handful of CDs from my room last week: give them back
before I find you.

Either that or pray the police find you first.

You see, it’s not just that you stole from me. I under-
stand that thieving little rat bastards have to make a living
too. lt’sjust that . . . well . . . couldn’t you have stolen my
text books instead?

lfyou had to take a Led Zeppelin album, couldn’t you
have taken “Presence” instead of “II” and “III”? And if
you needed a Beatles album, couldn’t you have swiped
“Yellow Submarine” instead of “Sgt. Pepper’s Lonely
Hearts Club Band”?

But it wasn’t enough to stop there, was it? No, no no
no. You had to go ahead and help yourself to not one, but
_tv_v_q ofmy Pink Floyd albums.

Bad move. Very bad move.

Look, you didn’t pay for those. That was my hard-
earned money that went to Rick Wright’s coke dealer and
Roger Waters’ legal bills.

I’m going to break this down into language so simplis-
tic even a worthless piece of human debris like you can
understand it: if my copy of “The Wall” is not back in my
room by tomorrow I am going hunt you down, dress you
up like a goat and drop you off in a certain fratemity’s
basement.

Capisce?

And if my CDs aren’t back within a week, I may have
to break every last kneecap in town until I start getting
some answers. Don’t think I’m above it —- I am from Jer-
sev.
So Mr. Burglar, as they say in my MC5 album which is
now your MC5 album, “It takes five seconds of decision
to decide how you’re going to live the rest of your life.”
Are you going to live with my CDS or with your knees?

Time’s up, dude. What’s it gonna be? »

 

Crossword Puzzle

(answers on page 5)

ACROSS 53 Males

I Coins 56 Racetrack

6 Wagon 57 Author O’Casey
l0 Masticate 58 “— man with

14 “— of Two Cities” seven...”

15 USA word; abbr_ 60 Peter of the piano

l6 Appraise 61 Singer James

17 Strong fabric 62 Mrs. Reagan

18 — Lisa 63 Writer Zane

19 Press 64 A blue

20 Drs.’ gp. 65 Invaders of Rome
21 Headway

24 Kelly and Hackman DOWN

26 B€f0f€ 1 Art school

27 Ante-bellum 2 Short article

29 Assemble and compare 3 supervision

33 Folmbagger 4 Yale student

34 Ra}-ah’5 Consort 5 College course

35  for  6 Vacation spots

37 CUITICF and— 7 God oflove

38 More rational 3 Nevada city

39 Cemiln 9 Tourist

40 Author Deighton 10 Black Sea penin- ‘
41 Community folkways Sula

42 Skin °Penl“g5 l l Long-eared jumper
43 Ship 12 College on the

45 Boxing bout peroids Thames

46 Feminine title: abbr. 13 Leﬁ

47  Of SOI'lg  Debu55y’5 "La —”
48 Separate chamber  Pen'y’s creator

Ellie lliing-tum iﬁhi

LAST WORD

NOVEMBER 2, 1998

25 Sheep 49 Finished

27 Donahue 50 Horse

28 Wanders 51 Head: Fr.

29 Rattan worker 52 — Hari

30 Small bills 54 Design with

31 Knightly sport, acid

32 Went wrong 55 Some votes

34 Unusual 59 Name in China

36 Hardy heroine

33 Wfltﬁr © 1994 Tribune Media Services
Maugham

39 Essence

41 “I ~ ~ . .
Remembe, tﬁtmmrklg apraktng
-—” by Justine Moncrief

42 Showing

Sulklness J/al/aweea M a  once a {fed/1-,
 W//zmeé¢'<{2.ﬁL¢Za[«JlZ[e2o¢ac'Z/Llfean.
4, of n/gram Z/ze la/Lé

punishment WMWJ we” “ ‘"444

48Lawmak— 
"lg gp-

 

COME DESIGN YOUR OWN BIG DADDY
CAPPUCCINO MUG THIS SATURDAY AT
THE RUSE
1 P.M. TO 4 P.M.
~FREE COFFEE«~

$2 CHARGE FOR SUPPLIES

SFA WILL FIRE THE MUGS AND GET THEM BACK
To YOU IN TIME FOR HOLIDAY GIFT GIVING.

 

In jail? Dead?

At American Excess, we'll give our credit
card to anybody!

Now American Excess is announcing a new
card designed especially for the impulsive
college student with little or no
understanding of ﬁnance: The Premium
Consumer card.

American Excess understands that college
life is busy. You don't have time to sit

down and think about your money. That's I
why we're betting you won't sit down to

Hey, you're on your own now. Isn't it time I

[NEE GASH?

Bad credit? No credit? In debt?

NOT A PROBLEM.

'.,{futnre today!’
think about our 740% interest rate. :3 A  ’ 9‘
I IIRIIIC3
Iaddress:

 

;‘e”‘m:"‘t
‘Eh: I "-I '
/’%¢J

    

gm

   

es‘l;.I’tn§ ready to start‘ mortgaging away my

And for our truly discerning spendthrifts,

So come on. Be a good little American
consumer and buy, buy, buy to your
greedy little heart's content.
We've got you covered.

American Excess:
Don’t leave home

without debt.

a Last Word fake ad

you started accumulating debt on your :t""'°l"H"‘."° #‘( '1 
own? :[ ] sign me up for
: the Premium’

n Consumer card

_ : designed just for I d0n’t mind Paying
we offer our special Gold Card — available - irresponsible roots double the price for a
only to those select few individuals who : like me Stat“-°* SYmb°'
bother to fill out the application. 5 signature;

[ ]'sign me up for the
Gold Card —— as a
social climbing snob

Clip this out and mail it to American Excess,
11 11th Street, Madison, WI 53715 and let
the capricious capitalism begin!

ﬁne print: American Excess is not affiliated in any way with
any other credit card companies, despite similarities in name
and/or motto. American Excess is legally required to inform you
that our 740% interest rate is almost twice as high as our
nearest competitor, Master Card. Of course we're mentioning
that down here in the line print because studies show that
surprisingly few people actually read the line print. People just
read the short words in big fonts and look at all the nice
graphics and don't bother with the words down here. Watch, I
could write anything I wanted. Blip. Blip blip blip blip. Snarg.
Snarg. Weeeewog. See? Anyway, uh . . . don‘t mix credit cards
with other medications, and if a rash occurs See your doctor, bla
bla bla. You know the rest of that ﬁne print stuff.

1.

Off the Wire

ﬁctitously compiled by Kevin McManemin

Surgeon General’s Warning halts

purchase of cigarettes

Clearfield, PA —-— Forty-year smoker Irene
Schaumbauer recently declined to purchase a pack
of Marlboro Ultra Lights after reading the Surgeon
General’s Warning on the side. “Wait a minute . . .
these things may be hazardous to my health? Jesus!
I had no idea!” Schambauer said.

The Surgeon General’s Warning has been instru-
mental in thwarting cigarette purchases, usually
among hertnits, coma patients or others who have
lived in a total media blackout for the last 50 years.

Statistics show that the warning that pregnant
women should not smoke has been especially effec-
tive in cutting down on smoking among teenage girls.

Latest Serb aggression met with
international display of apathy

Sarajevo —~ The international community re-
sponded with a resounding shrug of apathy after

V Serbian forces slaughtered the town of Gzynksxnvy.

“I am so God damn tired of hearing about their
problems,” President Clinton said. “I say, let ‘em solve
their own mess for once.” V .

The United Nations Security Council passed a
resolution stating that if it sees any more evidence of
Serb aggression in the news they’re going to turn
the channel, or barring a nearby remote control, will
put their ﬁngers in their ears and close their eyes.

This latest aggression comes only weeks after

Bosnian rebels bombed a . ‘. .5 no, wait, maybe that

was in Northern Ireland. Or was it Israel? Frankly it’s
not worth our time to do the research. '

Study shows studies on the rise
Chicago —- A study conducted by the Univer-
sity of Chicago found that more studies are currently
being conducted than at any other time in history.
The number of studies has increased eightfold in
the last 50 years, due mainly to larger numbers of
grad students with thesis papers to write. If the cur-
rent trends continue, by 201 5 there will be more stud-
ies conducted than there will be people to conduct
them. By 2035 the nation’s thesis reserves will be
used up, with every last remotely interesting topic
already taken.‘The academic world would then find

"itselfsin a full-scale tenurewar with little hope for

sabbatical. ,

. _ . , . , .

    

UNDERGRADUATE STUDY ABROAD

GREAT BRITAIN
AUSTRALIA
IRELAND
NEW ZEALAN D

Date:

Location:

BUTLER

ARGENTINA
CHILE
COSTA RICA

Fall, Spring or Full Year. Scholarships Available.

Study Abroad Information Session:
Representative: SteV€ Se8W0I"Ch

Monday, November 2

11:00 a.m. — 1:00 p.m.
Union Center (outside GHQ)
at Information Table

For further information contact the Institute for Study Abroad. Butler University,

4600 Sunset Avenue, Indianapolis. IN 46208, Tel: 800/858-0229 Fax: 317/940-9704

INSTITUTE FOR STUDY ABROAD
U N 1 v E R S I T Y

 

