 

I U112 ﬁling-tum lﬂlii

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNivERsITY‘s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

#5

VOLUME 101, NO. 14

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1999

Angelou  
captivates

By Polly Doig

NEWS EDIT0R

She strode into Lee Chapel sur-
rounded by the aura that is apparent
even on TV, on the arm of a man about
six inches shorter than she. She moved
gracefully through the receiving line,
shaking hands.'She signed students’
battered copies (though most still bore
price tags) of “I Know Why the Caged
Bird Sings,” with a simple “Joy.”

When the poet laureate comes to
town, people tend to sit up and take
notice. Lexington was no exception for
Maya Angelou’s visit to Washington
and Lee University last Wednesday.

More than 600 tickets were distrib-
uted. Forty-ﬁve minutes before the
speech was to begin, the line of ticket
holders almost bridged the distance
between the two churches bearing
Robert E. Lee’s name. Sirnulcast loca-
tions were set up in buildings around
the W&L campus, and people scat—
tered to ﬁnd seats there when the
chapel ﬁlled.

Angelou came with a price tag of
$27,000 for an hour’s speech, and most
who watched claimed that Contact and
its co-sponsors did not overpay.

“I thought that the sponsors made
an incredible investment, but it was
worth every penny,”
Megan Davis. “I wish she could have
spoken for hours. The poetry just
ﬂowed out of her.”

Angelou recited her own poems
and favorites by other authors, told
personal anecdotes, and encour-
aged W&L students to continue de-

“,‘veloping themselves. Many stu-

blents came away from the speech
inspired.

“I had a chance to get an autograph
and speak with her beforehand, and
she was just great,” Minority Student
Association President Brian Jamison
said. “[During the speech] I felt so in-
spired, because she kept talking about
being a rainbow in the clouds, which
to me meant that when things get bad,
you keep going and pretty soon they
turn around.”

Angelou’s speaker fee was paid by
Contact, PRIDE, the MSA, the Ofﬁce
of the Dean of the College, and the
Ofﬁce of the President.

“It was really a no-brainer when we
were asked to co-sponsor,” Jamison
said. “With a limited budget it’s hard
to do to get speakers like that here. So
when we had the opportunity to co-
operate with Contact, it was an easy
decision.”

said senior .

ay Angelou delers spec to a paked Le hap about rainbows intheclod.

WLUR thefts continue

CD disappearances show Honor System not respected

By Heather McDonald

STAFF WRITER

Chances are, if you listen to WLUR
91.5, you have heard DJs say, “We
don’t have the CD.” Some ofthis is
because CD5 are being stolen from the
music library.

Senior Cliff Woolley, Chief Opera-
tor/Engineer ofWLUR, says that there
is no record of how many CD5 have
been stolen.

“lt’s pretty consistent from year to
year,” Woolley said. “They’re usu-
ally the really popular CDs. The new
Black Crowes and Pearl Jam Live CDs
were in the studio for only days. We
went out and bought replacement CDs
right away.” Usually, the music com-
panies send free CD5 to radio stations
for airplay. WLUR does not have
enough money to replace all the CDs
that are stolen, Woolley said.

“It’s anybody’s guess who is steal-

ing the CD5,” Woolley said. In order
to prevent more of the popular new

releasesfrom being stolen, WLUR has

now taken drastic measures to keep
the CDs out of the stacks.

“What we’re doing now is locking
them down,” Professor Bob deMaria
said, “ which kind of defeats the pur-
pose of an Honor Code.” A few new
releases, including the Black Crowes
and Pearl J am Live CDs, are now in a
padlocked box within a locked room.
These CD5 have been recorded and
encoded into MP3 format, loaded onto
the computer within the studio, and
then kept for future reference. These
songs in MP3 format can then be
played over the air like a CD or an al-
bum in the radio station.

“It’s really ridiculous and a lot of
work,” Woolley said. “But if it keeps
the CD5 from being stolen, I guess we
have to.” Woolley says that in addition
to making extra work for WLUR work-

ers, the songs lose sound quality when
changed from CD quality to MP3.

Despite signs forbidding “borrow-
ing” CDs from the WLUR music library,
Woolley says that warnings of Honor
Violation charges have not deterred
whoever is stealing the CDs. If he
catches them, Woolley says, “I would
send them straight to the EC. I have
no hesitation in calling the EC into this.
If it’s not W&L students, then I’d have
to call the police, and I would press
charges.”

DJ Jeffrey James is disappointed
with the situation.

“It’s really sad that [this is happen-
ing] at a school with an honor system
that covers every aspect of our lives,
from academics to walking into the
bookstore,” James said. James has
gone looking for a particular CD many
times and found only an empty case
and the CD gone for good.

“It’s really frustrating,” James said.

‘One Acoustic Evening’ held for charity

By Jonathan Barker

STAFF WRITER

Ten acts took the stage at the
Lenfest Center Saturday night for
“One Acoustic Evening,” a musical
showcase for charity. Performances
ranged from the fast-paced bluegrass
pickings of The Ruley Boys to the big
band sounds of the University Jazz
Ensemble, with almost every other
type of music that falls between.

The show began with Washington
and Lee seniors Elizabeth Huston and
John Wilbers’s version of James
Taylor’s “Mexico,” and continued on

Junior reg Nuza, piaist for the ban Speas, eforms during “One Acoustic Evening.” Z

through to the raucous bluegrass act
Wildgrass, who headlined the event.
Other student acts included the song-
writing duo of Josh Harvey and Chris
Edwards and the pop rock quartet
Speakeasy.

Harvey and Edwards’s act, one of
the highlights of the evening, de-
lighted the crowd with such feel- good
songs as “You Make it All Worth
While.” Harvey’s piano solos also
elicited much applause. When forced
to choose a favorite act of the evening,
Wayne Raynal, owner of Night Owl
Music, reﬂected the opinions of many
when he said, “I’d have to go with

Josh and Chris. They play such com-

plex music and play it so well.”
Another crowd pleaser was Speak-

easy, the night’s other rock act. Play-

ing in an unplugged setup, the group.

performed four original songs, from
the fast paced “The Bridge” to the
popish “Kinda Hard.” The group con-
sists ofjuniors Anthony Allen on
drums, Matt LaMotte on guitar and
vocals, Greg Nouza on piano, and
sophomore Matt Herman on bass.
Also performing was the Univer-
sity Jazz Ensemble, a thirteen member
group directed by Terry Vosbein. The
ensemble livened up the evening with

 

a selection of Duke Ellington songs.
“I think we had a lot of fun up there,
and it showed,” said saxophonist Mike
Agnello.

Of the local groups, Rattlesnake
Chili, The Ruley Boys, Walker’s Run,
and Wildgrass provided the audience
with a steady stream of bluegrass, the
most common genre of the night. The
acts were largely met with enthusiasm.

Many students, however, were sur-
prised by the popularity of bluegrass.
“I didn’t realize that it was so popu-
lar,” said sophomore Carly Blakelock,
“but I’m impressed by the amount of
musical talent.”

Those who are bluegrass fans were
likewise impressed. Sophomore John
Dumas, who classiﬁes himself as a
bluegrass fan, said that Saturday
night’s fare “rates well with what I usu-
ally listen to.”

The funds raised on Saturday
night will go to help alternative spring
break projects for Washington and Lee
students. The projects, co-sponsored
by Total Action Against Poverty
(TAP) and Catholic Campus Ministry,
will take students to Nicaragua over
February break and work in Lexington
over spring break.

Students on the Nicaraguan trip will
be helping to repair last year’s destruc-
tion by Hurricane Mitch. Students par-
ticipating in the program over spring
break, Christmas in April, will be do-
ing repair work and house painting for
elderly, ill and poor Rockbridge
County residents.

 

Fancy Dress
‘veils’ theme

By Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

The self-proclaimed ‘biggest party
of the South’ will add masks, amongst
other things, to the list of acceptable
attire for the bicenquinquagenary-year
ball.

This year’s Fancy Dress theme,
which was announced today by the
FD Steering Committee, is “Le Bal
Masque, The 92nd Annual Fancy
Dress Ball, A Renaissance of the Origi-
nal.” The theme attempts to recreate
the original ball, which was organized
in 1907 by Washington and Lee Uni-
versity librarian Annie Jo White with
$42 in leftover theater funds.

“The student committee decided
that the theme should be fun, but also
high-class,” FD Publicity Chairman
Sarah Rector said. “We wanted it to
be different than the 250*‘ ball, but we
still wanted it to be something elegant,
so we decided to go with the masquer-
ade theme.”

Fancy Dress is scheduled for Sat-
urday, March 5, 1999 in the Warner
Center, and is open to all W&L stu-
dents, faculty, alumni and guests. Ac-
cording to the Steering Committee,
decorations will transform both gyms
in the Warner Center into a mass of
Renaissance-era architecture and land-
scapes, with a “merry and high-class
mood, like a 16th-century masquerade
ball.”

The masquerade theme has many
students more excited than usual.

“I wasn’t planning to go to FD,”
junior Sonia Hall said. “Then I heard
about the theme, and thought that this
one seems exciting and different, not
like the ones I’ve seen so far. It sounds
like a theme that people will go all-out
for.”

Indeed, the FD Steering Committee
is suggesting ‘everything from boas
and tiaras, cowboy boots and hats, as
well as various period pieces for

partygoers. In addition, the commit-
tee recommends that costume ideas
may be obtained from such movies as
“Much Ado About Nothing” and
“Romeo and Juliet.” FD invitations
themselves, which will be mailed within
the next two weeks, request “creative
black tie” and costumes. '

“Normally people find out the
theme from the invitations,” Rector
said. “But this year, because of the
theme, we wanted to give people as
much time as possible to go out and
ﬁnd really creative costumes.”

According to Rector, instead of
teasing with the theme the committee
will instead tease with the names of
the bands.

“There’ll still be some element of
surprise this way,” Rector said.

For additional costume ideas, Rec-
tor recommends visiting the FD
website, which is linked from the W&L
homepage.

“Hopefully, people will visit the
website,” Rector said. “There’ll be
links that will give people suggestions,
and it should be really helpful.”

The ball’s music, which has tradi-
tionally included two bands playing
simultaneously in the large and small
gymnasiums of the Warner Center, will
be added to by a third band this year.
The additional band will take turns
playing in the large gym.

“Kings of Swing” will be playing
again this year in the small gym. Al-
though the FD Publicity Committee is
not releasing the names of the bands
that will be performing in the large
gym, clues to their identities will be
released during the week prior to Feb-
ruary break. The names will be an-
nounced at the end of February.

Ticket packages, which include two
t-shirts, two shot glasses, two post-
ers and six plastic cups, will go on sale
in the University Center for $88 begin-
ning March 1. More than 2,100
partygoers are expected to attend.

Pulitzer-winning
author to speak

By Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

Pulitzer Prize-winner Taylor Branch
will give a speech concerning Martin
Luther King, Jr.’s role in shaping the
Civil Rights movement 7:30 p.m.
Wednesday in Lee Chapel.

“Branch is the best Martin Luther
King, Jr. historian there is,” Contact
Chair Jason Hahn said. “He is also an
entertaining and interesting speaker.”

Branch, who will spend several
days at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, is sponsored by Contact and will
also meet with various classes.

“Considering the fact that Mar-
tin Luther King, Jr. Day, which was
just a week ago, was virtually unno-
ticed on campus, I think this visit is
very timely,” Contact Vice-Chair

Roshni Nirody said.

Branch won the Pulitzer Prize for
History in 1988 for his book “Parting
the Waters: America in the King Years
1954-63.” He published the second
book of his King trilogy last year, “Pil-
lar of F ire: America in the King Years

1963-65.” He received a ﬁve-year
MacArthur Foundation Fellowship in
1991.

“As Mr. Branch is a Pulitzer Prize-
winnirig author as well as an acclaimed
historian, I am sure he’ll appeal to a
wide range of people,” Nirody said.
“Personally, I think it is great that Con-
tact is bringing in a speaker who can
offer some reﬂections on one of the
great leaders of our time.”

A reception and book signing will
be held following the lecture in the
Alumni House.

February 1, 1999
OPINION:

W&LiFE:

SPORTS:

LAST WORD:

(J11: ﬁling-mm iﬂlii

Lip sync raises money, alumnus responds to senior exit
surveys and W&L needs athletic supporters

Black students have a short but important history at
W&L, LaMotte reviews latest Eels album

Men’s basketball wins their first game

Stereotypes debate impeachment

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

PAGE 5

PAGE 6

 

,4 F!’ C H .
 1/ I C?
3 57%. 768
  A _
/79  A-M
V, ! 5* /

I 4

3.73;’ I

PAGr~:2}.;

 12 Tiling-tum ﬂirts

FEBRUARY 1, 1999

 

Shenandoah sponsors
cover art contest

Winning artist will receive $400 and have work
published in the nationally-recognized magazine



 

By Tarah Grant

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

Shenandoah, the Washington
and Lee University Review, is look-
ing for a piece of art, produced by

.a W&L undergraduate, to publish
on the magazine’s cover.

Founded in 1950 by a group of
undergraduates, Shenandoah pub-
lishes a wide range of original po-
etry, ﬁctions and essays. Writers
from around the world submit their
work to Shenandoah with hopes
of being selected for publication.
Its editors have included well-

§HENAND0A;g

 

known literary ﬁgures Tom Wolfe,
James Boatwright and Dabney
Stuart. Since Shenana'oah’s of-
ﬁces are located off the main cam-
pus, though, many of today’s stu-
dents do not know about it.

“I’ve been working to bring
Shenandoah back into some local
prominence, making its kinship to
W & L more evident than our loca-
tion and address might suggest,”
R.T. Smith, Shenandoah’s current
editor, said. “This seemed one way
to accomplish that aim.”

Shenandoah has not published
any work by Washington and Lee
students in more than a decade, al-
though faculty submissions occa-

sionally are accepted. A painting

AN DOAH

by Emeritus Professor of Art I-
Hsiung Ju was selected for the Fall
1997 cover.

The winner of the cover art con-
test will be paid $400 for the cre-
ation. “We’re just looking for one
piece, but you never know,” Smith
said. “If there are more than one

. ..them.”. . ..

bring the original to the ofﬁces of
Shenandoah, 2nd Floor, Trouba-
dour Theater.

“The only advice I’d give is that
a look at the past dozen or so is-
sues would give some idea of my

taste, which is generally represen-

tational,” Smith said. “Also, a ver-
tical composition ﬁts our page best,
allows us to present the image
larger.”

The contest will be judged by
the editors of Shenandoah. If no
entry is deemed appropriate to
serve as a cover for the journal, a
non-purchase prize of $ 1 00 will be
awarded.

Shenandoah Editor R.T.
Smith suggests that
students look at the covers
of old issues for inspiration.

GENERAL NOTES

 

E-mail General Notes to phi@wlu.edu

Writing Center tutors

available to give help

The Writing Center in Payne Hall is
open 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. Sunday through
Thursday. It is staffed with trained tu-
tors who can assist students with any
college writing task, from papers and
lab reports to resumes and application
essays.

Students who want to meet with a
tutor should sign-up in advance for
an appointment. The appointment
sheet is hanging on the wall next to
the Writing Center ofﬁce.

Applications for Oxford

program are due soon

Washington and Lee is one of six
area schools that sponsor a summer
program at St. Anne's College, Oxford,
England. The Virginia Program at Ox-
ford uses the English tutorial system
to study the literature and history of
Tudor-Stuart England.

Dates are July 5 to Aug. 14, 1999.
Application deadline is March 1, 1999.
There is some scholarship aid avail-
able. See Professor Pamela Simpson
in the art department for more infor-
mation.

Generalprobe presents

German plays in Lenfest
Generalprobe, a German theater
group of Washington and Lee German
students and faculty, will perform three
one—act comedies by 16th century poet

that catch my fancy',l won't forget” A  I

SUCCESS.

a two-year enlistment.

need to succeed in college.

GET AN EDGE ON COLLEGE EXPENSES.

The Army can help you get an edge
on college expenses in just two years.

When you enlist and qualify for a
certain skill, you could become eligible
for the Montgomery GI Bill plus the
Army College Fund. That means you
could earn $26,500 for college with

And the Army will give you
another edge, too. You’ll develop .
the self-discipline, self-conﬁdence and maturity you'll

Find out more about how you can get $26,500 for

college in just two short years. Call your local Army
Recruiter for more information today.

703-886-2651

ARMY
BE ALL YOU CAN BE?

wvvw.goarmy.com

  
  
 
 

Students.shouldis’end'a slidéori  1 

@112 iﬁing-tum lﬂlri
1999-ZHIJIJ ﬁtaff

The Ring-tum Phi is
currently accepting
applications for all
positions. The new staff
will take over production
of the newspaper at the
beginning of Spring
Term.

Students interested in
serving on the 1999-2000
staff should submit their
résumé and cover letter
to The Ring-tum Phi
mailbox in the University
Center by March 15.

Q9 .,V

   
 
 

ONl.il,NE,;.,.EDlT£ ‘(R EEDED iMlVlEDlATELY _   ~
We  ‘a stud n oIpu’tfThe' Ring-tum Phi onlinef ~
e”  L; ’  'xperience.necessary.. E-mail
phi@wl,u;edu';'if;ryfo;uare interested in thegpositionifi :., I

ﬂAll-TIIE BEST THEN l}All THE BEST!

. ﬁgzf USA srnma BREAK

BAHAMAS
rnunmn em ,

BALI Fllll llllll BEST Plllci llllAIIllllTEEl
JOIN US r-‘on THE WILDEST

PARTIES .01! THE PLAN ET!

EAT 8. Illllllll Fllll FIIEE!“

 

ALL TRIPS INCLUDE:
ROUNDTRIP AIR* 7 NIGHTS HOTEL
ROUNDTRIP TRANSFERS* HOTEL TAXES
STAFF ASSISTANCE USA PARTY PACKAGE
‘Caribbean packages onry. “Call for details. I

.1-888-77 7-4642

 

www.usaspringbreak.com. |

Academic Couple seeks:

EGG DONOR

for clinic in VA/N C region: Cau-
casian woman, 21-30, nonsmoker,
college degree or higher, solid
SAT scores, at least 5’8”, lean/
athletic build, dark complexion/
hair, even-featured face, excellent
health/teeth/skin/eyesight. Right
candidate will be well-compen-
sated and asked to provide pho-
tos. Please send letter along with
background, education, and mo-
tivation for doing this to: POB
425545, Cambridge, MA 02142.
All serious replies answered.

_____A__J

Parents’ IITSBBIIIII

Newly Renovated

Econo
Lodge

540-463-7311

H88 H30 Wllll BBIIIIIIB
N0 Slllﬂlllllﬂ ll00|llS

FIBB continental Brealrtast

and dramatist Hans Sachs in the Keller
Theater, Lenfest Center at 8 p.m.
Thursday and Friday.

The comedies will be performed in
German, with a detailed English syn-
opsis provided in the program. Admis-
sion is free.

Hans Sachs was the most proliﬁc
and well—known poet of his day—a fa-
mous Meistersinger later featured in
Wagner's Opera “Die Meistersinger
von Nuemberg.” Best known today
are his carnival comedies, of which
Generalprobe features three:
“Eulenspiegel with the Blind Men,”
“The Hot Iron” and “The Devil took
an Old Woman for a Wife." Also fea-
tured will be a “Meistersinger” con-
test judged by the audience.

W&L celebrates 250"‘

with postcard V

The U. S. Postal Service will honor
Washington and Lee’s 250"‘ anniver-
sary with a ceremony for the first day
of issue of a stamped card bearing a
photograph of the University’s Col-
onnade. The ceremony takes place on
Thursday, Feb. 11 at 2 p.m. in Lee
Chapel.

Kl

“The Historic Preservation series
of stamped cards provides a unique
way of saluting America's finest
schools, museums and other institu-
tions on their important anniversaries
by featuring a building which is on
the National Register of Historic Land-
marks,” said Frank Thomas, market-
ing specialist of the stamp department
ofthe U.S. Postal Service.

The W&L Colonnade appeared
earlier on a postage stamp in 1949 in
honor of the University's bicentennial,
the last time the Postal Service used a
university on a stamp. .

In the Feb. 11 ceremony, Larry
Creamer, the postmaster of Lexington,
will preside and the Virginia Military
institute color guard will perform. The
program also includes remarks by
George Washington, portrayed by
William Sommerﬁeld, and the dedica-
tion of the card by Henry Pankey, vice
president for area operations of the
Postal Service's mid-Atlantic region.

Designed by Derry Noyes of
Washington, the 20-cent stamped
card will be available at the ceremony,
and members of the presiding party
will autograph it after the ceremony.

“HOME OF THE WORLD'S LONGEST KEG PART "
FREE DRAFT BEERALL WEEK LONG-(ALL FOR INFO!
1-800-488-8828

www.sandpiperbeacon.com (*rates per person)

17403 FRONT BEACH ROAD -

PANAMA CITY BEACH, FL 32413

C:/lgoﬁynzaz/Qpor/ut212’1'es‘.7

Summer Jobs at Washington and Lee University

Counselors for Summer Scholars

June 30-July 31,1999

Summer Scholars is a four-week academic program
for 150 rising high school seniors. Counselors serve
as resident advisors for 10 students in Graham—Lees
dormitory and plan evening and weekend activities.
Application deadline is Feb. 24, 1999.

Special Programs Resident Assistants

June 15-Aug. 3, 1999

The Ofﬁce of Special Programs employs 5 W&L
students to serve as Resident Assistants for a wide
variety of Special Programs including Alumni Colleges,
Elderhostel, and adult conferences. Duties include
housekeeping, attending all meals with guests, bar
receptions, and shuttle driving. An outgoing person-
ality is a must. Application deadline is March 31, 1999.

For more information, please contact the Ofﬁce of
Special Programs, Howard House, 463-8723.

JAMES G. LEYBURN LIBRARY
WASHWGTON 8: LEE UNPVET-TSTTY
LEXNGTON. VA 24450

‘FEB 02 1999

LEXINGTON SCHOOL OF DANCE

FANCY DRESS
SWING DANCE
LESSONS

Lexington School of Dance
Sherri Ludt, Director
14 E. Nelson Street
463-7662

Classes begin Feb. '7
5:30-6:30 p.m.

A

.. ...——

k

<4’

5
‘i
‘ii

‘ha If

 

FEBRUARY 1, 1999

O

@112 itling-tum lﬂlii

PINION

 

PAGE 3

Come cheer for W&L athletics

Let’s give it up for the men’s and
women’s basketball teams here at
Washington and Lee.

These Generals are awesome, and
it's a shame that so little support is
given to them. After attending a few
games, I became hooked. There is so
much excitement and energy in

darn good job at it. I have a hard time
ﬁnishing my homework and I don’t
have practice every day! How do they gets a free Domino's pizza. How much
do it? The team’s ex-
citement just fills the
gym and it gets every-
body into the spirit.  
When I see people ix

ets and the ticket holders compete in
a 30-second shoot out. The winner

better can it get? The
music, typical arena
rock, gets all fans into
the mood. You can
even catch a few fu-

g;-3- %Not—So—Deep

  

  Thoughts

“ex .

Warner Center, I just have to go to standing for the W&L -.  Carly Bl ak 61 Ock .01 ture Generals dancing
their games. Swing, I just can t on the sidelines.
These athletes are managing ath— keep myself from smil— I'm writing this in

letics and academics and are doing a

(6

Let’ s all take a few
minutes out of our

evenings to give a little
much-needed support

to our Generals.

7 7

our teams!

ing. The leadership given by some of
the older players warms my heart. If
I could only be a part of it.
Professors, deans, Lexingtonians,
and students come together to give
the support that the Generals de-
serve. If only we could fill the gym
for all the games and help pump up

One of the most exciting parts of
the game has to be the halftime shoot
out. Mr. Bitz randomly selects 3 tick-

the hopes that more Generals will give
their support to all General athletes.
They have skill, spirit and spunk, but
something is missing when only a
handful of supporters show up. The
men’s next home game is today at 7:30
and the women's next home game is
tomorrow at 7 p.m.

Let's all take a few minutes out of
our evenings to give a little much-
needed support to our Generals. See
you there!

In the Shadow of the Chapel

by Erica Prosser

, 

Hc\¢5 in ‘His:

Ci 3-xr6i"l'e, ¢_;\'o~ir\
iourns rot“ v --

(M emo +0 sci-$1 we\\)°*"‘i
dovft Q6.“ qhC_ 0
oJ>\e¢Q w{—\-\~ W0 ?ar‘\’3cs
o~ \i-\’ c.2o)o-¢<—"<‘\'G) L W

 
 
  
  
 
   
 

\ l‘V\,'rV,\/. :31) Crncm) Kicil \/GUI’.
O.\(‘€otci\/' OK/\/€, ‘I
mg -;or ’T\A~’*~'\'
crn*'.“,\r*opo\o<3\{

r-4-I’

/ essay e;
iTou V~I°~""‘* ' 7 
\\g.gt.K vow Pace. :
\ ,—«"f‘

"BeuJqrE+/re cold ilzsf //<2/iq. 

I am a mathematics major and damn proud of it 

Let me just begin this week with a discussion of how
cool the math department is. Sure, math is frequently
the target of student hatred, but if you can get over the
initial phobia of Robinson you will soon
realize the true majesty of the depart- -
merit. It is a small department with only ,, Y
seven professors and roughly 20 jun- if. E?
ior and senior majors. Despite this ap-
parent small size, almost every student
passes through this beloved department to fulfill the
dreaded gen-eds.

Regardless of your major, you have the opportunity to
experience the true caring nature of the mathematics pro-
fessors. Each one adds some unique qualities to the fac-
ulty as a whole. Each of these men, all brilliant in his own
right, has given something to the student body. My expe-
riences have been remarkable to say the least. Upon en-
tering this institution, the thought of majoring in math

  
 fuote of the Week:

z
"(3tI.»»-.4‘

 
 

  

I wish students would send
‘Quote of the week’ ideas
to phi@wlu.edu.

— Drained, frustrated editor

I}

~ just Plain Right

  ,3 1‘! Jean Rowan ’O1

Cilia: iﬁing-tum iﬂhi

Tarah Grant
Hollister Hovey
Polly Doig

John Stewart
Ginger Phillips
Erica Prosser
Stephanie Bianco
Stephen Pesce
Frances Groberg
Kevin McManemin
Sarah Meldrum
Meredith Mlynar

Executive Editors
News Editors
W&Life Editors
Opinions Editors
Sports Editor

Last Word Editor
Copy Editors

Photo Editors Emily Barnes
Scott Cameron
Production Assistant Cliff Woolley

Business Manager
Advertising Directors
Circulation Director

Jason Williams
Matt Lorbcr
Lionel Brown

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editors, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “Talkback” do not
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http :// wl u. edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

 

never crossed my mind. Math was only for geeks who
never left the library and laughed at math jokes. But since
my arrival, I have come to the realization that this is far
from the truth. (And for the record, I
think that most people think math jokes
are funny, they arejust afraid to admit
it.) Anyway, the professors are so amaz-
ing. I’ll share a little known fact: the
math professors are in the most over-
worked department. You would never know that these
men have more students than most other faculty mem-
bers because they give so much of their time to their
students. Walk through Robinson Hall sometime and
you will see all the office doors open and usually a few
students in discussing this week’s homework. All the
brochures claimed that this was the case in every de-
partment at Washington and Lee, but my experience
has proven otherwise. I feel genuinely welcome in ev-

ery math professor’s office. Believe it or not, this is one
ofthe biggest assets of the department. Granted I have
only had three math professors, but

these three men have really left their ‘ C

ten to know so many other fellow math students. A bond

exists between us that sure doesn’t appear to be present

in other departments. ;
Although math is not for every-

mark.
I know I’ll get some math dork com-
ments for this article, but I think some-

And for the record,

one, I would suggest that everyone
take a second look at the white cata-
log and maybe consider taking a

one needs to stand up and say this Ithmk most people class beyond what is required. It
stuff. Math really can be fun, ask any- think math jokes are could change your life. Maybe you
one who took Math 195 last spring term funny, they are just could just start out with an afternoon
with Dr. Dresden (advisor _ _ _ lecture. The math department IS in
extraordinaire). It was a phenomenal aﬁald to admlt 1t- the process of hiring some new

class and I recommend it to everyone.
Cryptography and Number Theory
was the name, you may want to mark
your schedules today. That class was one more thing that
drove me to declare mathematics as my major. I have not
regretted that decision once, especially since I have got-

9 9 teachers and there are two speakers
this week: today, Monday at 3 p.m.

and Thursday at 4 p.m. I hope to see
you all there. And one last goodbye to Prof. Dresden.
Prof. McRae, Prof. Vinson, Prof. Evans. Prof. Johnson.
Prof. Bourdon, and Prof. Dymacekll

.;   LETTERS To

ij,iPropusal to revise sexual‘
_ assault policy

To the W&L Community,

I ‘ munity recently received an anonymous letterjwhich
- described the effects of a rape and other consequences

thize with the writer and understand thepain and frus-

. . g with the Lexington Police and/or within the Wash'
- fyton and Lee community through Anece McC10!id

’ . P  As armounced last week, the Student Affairsg
niittee will begin a review of the University‘Policy,Ot1
Sexualehdisconduct in February. The review will ad;

 
 
   
 

_who have been involved in the process in the 
including chairs of SFHB, students, counselors and
 medical support personnel, security, and the Univer
 ’si mediator to SAC meetings. . . ' I 

 

 

Jstiecific issues of concern. The goal is to develo

quirements,.clear and understandable,.and effective.

present to the faculty before the end of tlie*,l_992§{§:..‘/39

1999. g . 1 , 
We will welcome your advice on how best to ad-
dress this difficult and troubling issue.

Barbara J. Brown, Chair, Student-
Faculty Hearing Board

David L. I-lowison, Dean of Students

Anece F. McCloud, University Mediator

 
 
  
  
  

Lip sync makes huge step.
against hunger

Dear Editor,

The 13th Annual SARAH (W&L Student Against
Rockbridge Area Hunger) lip sync contest is history,
the most successful even to date. Thirty-four acts and
632 paid admissions raised $4400, Perennial contest
winner Chi 0 did it again with their rendition of the
Village People’s “Macho Man.” Proceeds from the con-
test will purchase more than four this of food for the
local food pantry (more about this later in the term)-

 ii the second stage, there will be opportunitiesj2for._ ,
q input from the entire Washington and Lee University '  u . ,
.jcommunity through several focus groups dealing with ,

 THE EDITOR“ I    
 W  1 I .:f:Léddr=eai‘pis2'=3‘*n‘P1a
 Whourgffh ray,  _ 

* ‘with tjdfur. cameras.aThe bigges

. Y

Several members of the Washington and Lie,e,,cotr1’3-7?

I (of sexual assault at Washington and Leefwe emipa-, ’

tration that can result from such an incident.   tu‘riate‘;incidentilat lastgyea
clear. in the letter if the writer had ﬁled a Coriiplaint . , i ‘ 2
against her attacker. If not, we urge her to do soleither ‘

   
  
   
  
 
 
 
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   
 
  
   
    
  

' 7, 7 dress several of the issues raised in the letterincludirig. j; A i L (
assessment of the Student-Faculty Hearing,.Board-jg: A 3
’ cedures, sexual assault education programs, ti‘ain- ‘ A
ing programs for advocates, and support systernsgln ‘
the first stage of the review, SAC will invite individuals;

’ .

  

 

‘sexualniisconduct program that is responsive-to std‘ ‘ '
dent needs, compatible with legal and government re- s

The goal of SAC is to have a ﬁnal proposal ready to“ ~

academic year. If approved, the new policy andproce , 7 
dures wéuld be implemented beginning the Fall Termf

i  before sliewp

  
   
  
    
    
  
     
    
  
 
  
   
  
   
       
      
  
 

   

   
 

Knnstrong and Dhn Gra v ”

 G‘ve;it up for Wes and D
.. . I *~*it“.'5<%ftér;They$%.urroI.i!.1<1e<ii
..s&9f2g tté¢:_I$%e2i'.Gontch%1r°i‘/»i
 Lee and ,/Jensen.,who.,'gave”the
{.9nérw-   *  f  9.  . P.

3 ‘ ‘  ’ ial thanks goes toMikel Paike¥at_idChnsB
1 ofIFC and alljtlie‘ fraternity presidents; In

. r-(.4. .

to wés”

 
   
     

hallenge theqIkF’C but they
teﬁtfffsweii siurpprz  I

       

fl\/Ir. Clinton antic January
' ‘in Phi by Ms. Hollister

        

.¥iifS.ffI... to ,.   _ .
~ l5Ianket.ass,ei'tions\th‘atf call into,quéstion the competence ,

, of individualsﬁthat ‘firs esearch the.§iZeracitylofqher"i,
. . . . . . . - .".“tsftI1¢tti~:Qb¥i¢ufs13:Ms..Hs>veydoe ‘
% »; notpossess a,worlgin‘g“laiowledge.of the Jones case, Jones’  zpategd and w

«s»

lawy:ef,$l,7.or the legalisystemjgiri generaljas evident  her
comments. Ms. Hove)? 11a.d,the audacity to call Ms. Jones’-

attomeysi f'not 7quite‘tliat biigh .7‘ if “

gfRader, Cainpbell;lFisher.§iid Pykeithat represented Paula ,,
T0,, es in her lawsuit‘ againsf? Mr. Clintohjis ‘a close fami; ’

j  bf mine. David Pyke,wasmy'inother’s Moo = i 
; paitner in law school at SMU, and he has continit

  

L a close friend and associate of my mother to th‘ ‘

who knows,Pyke or an Q§li,i,§; partners, ’

     
   
  
 
  
  

and youw‘ill‘b,,
But, I can’t e 
partners at his 
miss them as
view oftheir han 38
I-lovey condemnsyviias

acornrnitiuentto SARAI-I'and they deliveretl‘biig7i1ne!iiThis 
_,EAxit_Sq “  

I  I-paiticipatedin ,

 tionaljﬁffectiyeness Coin‘ '

Wﬂtlngiﬁ Ms. Hovey’s cliar- _

    _

. ,‘One of Ms. Jonesfs» , , hmeys, a partneriin the law  A 1 if

‘iiottheirideﬁnition,i butone that is the accepted one to
us’ ‘insuch cases;§,Maybe the learned author of this
aiiti’cIefc”aii come.u’pgwith a; better definition than the I

4 United States Supreme Court and our Federal Rules of ‘
“Evidence. But ldoubt, that. Pyke and his partners .
.  ‘handled the case ethically and professionally. Further- 1
1   inure, had.Mr;.‘Clii;1ton not pe1jur,edhimse_lf, the Jones’ .5

"1 ’7att’oi‘iieysfwould have been able to establish a pattern ;

of behavior that would have been sufficient evidence :
to ﬁnd Clinton liable to Paula Jones for the tort of sexual ?
aifassment. It is extremely hard to win a sexual harass— 
meat caseiif a‘ witness, lies (which IS what Clinton ‘
did . . . donot buy that "legally accurate" fallacy), but i
' anlattomey could do it, then I guarantee that Pyke 7
uld be the one to win it.

Alum V ‘ poiids to Senior

    
  

"Senior Exit Survey conducted »
i’i'“§hool year by the Institu-‘E
A W H Nee. Irecently received’
‘ py ofgtheir report inthe mail and am dismayed by 5

at ate’ an of the isié

When CI,/toolg the-. survey, Irefiised to answer most

questions’ andijincluded all lengthy comment at thel:
8!id}_0f,,the. survey stating thatl believed that the;
"estio s askedaboutithé Honor System were com- .
etely iihappropriate,'.and that the Committee had‘

i ' Iced its‘resporisibility and jeopardized the

‘lof the Commiitee by abandoning questioiig‘ it}
 ked ~year,after year about student life, allow-1
ingpan aggregation of data over time which points:

 uppersistent problems, as well as charting progress 

made.
Iwas disappointed to see that in the current re-

iiport, my responses were thrown out or ignored,

 
  
  

rnycomments were not pub
predicted has come truezgb
they did, the Committee

ed, and the resultl
icing the questions
fproduced a worth-

] less document attackinig4§t‘ddeiri‘ts who attempted

to. answer honestl ariffd‘ interpolating their re-
sponses to prodjtc .3‘ result the Committee antici-
P “d, namely, Honor System "prob-
erit immediate "action" ifthe fac-
 ue to support the System.
ypersonal respect for the members of the
L , ,, and the authors of the report, I am disheart-

by the Committee's decision to shirk its vital re-
sponsibilities in order to play politic§

      
   
  
  
 

Alex Christensen ’98

Alum appreciates online Phi

Phi staﬁ‘:

I was one of those e-mailers wondering where the
online Phi was. Good luck getting some help, but in the
interim, THANK YOU for keeping tis old timers current.
It is greatly appreciated !!

Homer Bliss ’8l

 

 

PAGE 4

W&

@112 ‘iﬂing-Eum iﬂlii

IFE

Exploring diversity at Washington 

Black History Month, opportunity to examine role of Washington and Lee ’s black students, past, present rimljiiture

By Elianna Marziani
STAFF WRITER

February is Black History Month across/imerica. What
does that mean at Washington and Lee? It means explor-
ing some of our own black history and looking to the
ﬁxture of multicultural attitudes on this campus.

WHAT HAS GONE BEFORE

In 1795, Wasington and Lee University, then Liberty
Hall Academy, enrolled its first black student, John Chavis.
Chavis had been recruited by local Presbyterians to help
evangelize to the black community. .

The next black students did not arrive at W&L until
1942, when the U.S. government’ s School for Special Ser-
vices moved from Fort Meade to W&L. Black cadets were
among the 1200 cadets to go through this program during
the course of two years.

At about the same time, the civil rights issue became a
major force in national poli-
tics. The debate began to
come to a head, both in Vir-
ginia and in the United
States in general.

In 1950, The University
of Virginia admitted its first
black law student, and The
College of William and Mary
followed in 1951 when it ad-
mitted its first two black law
students. Nationally, 1954
marked the landmark Su-
preme Court case Brown v.
Board of Education of To-
peka, in which the court
ruled that “separate but
equal” facilities were a con-
tradiction in themselves and
that schools needed to be-
come desegregated. Some
groups were resistant to the changes this case brought,
but other groups were more welcoming of change.

Some faculty members at Washington and Lee, for ex-
ample, were ready for it.

“Starting in the 1960s, the faculty started clamoring for
desegregation,” Ted DeLaney, W&L history professor and
the only black undergraduate professor on campus, said.

- Because of faculty pressure to debate the issue, the
Board of Trustees held a special discussion about deseg-
regation, after which it proclaimed that the school charter
said nothing about discrimination.

The Board decided that since W&L had no discrimina-
tion policy, it should be entirely the prerogative of the admis-
sions office to admit black students. As DeLaney said, there
had been only “segregation by custom at W&L.”

This custom ended in 1966 when Dennis Haston, the
only black undergraduate applicant that year, was accepted
to W&L. He attended W&L for one year before transfer-
ring to a different college. The first undergraduate stu-

dents to receive degrees from W&L came in 1972 with the

graduation of Walter Blake and Carl Smothers.

Theater department
shows ‘Eccentricities’

    

Dean Anece McCloud helps to promote racial
diversity and understanding on campus.

lhot courtesy of Susan Wager
TW Ieshner ’99, Shelley Adams ’99, Howard Sanbom ’01, Julieann
Ulin ’01 and Rachel Welch ’02 rehearse their lines for ‘The
Eccentricities of A Nightingale,’ Tennessee Williams’ emotional
and eerie tale/of two lovers trapped by their societal positions.

In 1966 black law school applicant Leslie Smith enrolled, and
in 1969, he became the ﬁrst black law graduate from W&L.

Since then, black students have become an integral part
of W&L. While there are still relatively few black students
at W&L, the ones who are here are active participants in
campus social and academic life. In 1991, Willard Dumas
became the first black student body president, and in 1998,
Mikel Parker was elected the first black IFC president. Other
black students have become an important part of all sorts
of academic groups, clubs, sports, fraternities and sorori-
ties in the W&L community.

PROFESSOR DELANEY’S EXPERIENCE

As an example of the changes that have happened at W&L in
the last few decades, DeLaney offered his own perspectives as
an African-American man who is a native of Lexington and has
also been involved with W&L since his teenage years.

DeLaney first became involved with Washington and
Lee back when it was still segregated. He was what he
called “a poor kid who
needed a job,” and in Au-
gust 1963 he followed the
footsteps of many members
of the black community in
Lexington by taking a job
with the Buildings and
Grounds staff. A year later
he became a biology lab
technician, a job that he
held for 19 years.

During the last four

years he served as a lab
technician, he took advan-
tage of a fringe benefit
granted to employees by
taking one course each term
for credit. In 1983, DeLaney
quit his job and became a
full-time student, getting
his degree from W&L in
1985. He then taught at a prep school in North Carolina,
received a graduate degree from The College of William and
Mary, worked in ateaching fellowship for a couple of years,
wrote his dissertation and found himself back at Washing-
ton and Lee in 1995, this time as a history professor.

DeLaney’s role as staff member, student and professor
gives him a unique viewpoint of the life of black students at
W&L, past and present. He sees black students as positive
contributors to campus life, and one of his major concerns is
the small number of black students on campus. The current
ratio is one black student for every 31 white students.

This is an example of what DeLaney sees as a trend across
America, that “colleges are becoming more segregated.”

Part of the reason for this, he believes, is that colleges, includ-
ing W&L, are not working hard enough to recruit black students.

“Americans need to work harder to give the values of the
importance of higher education to blacks in elementary
and secondary school so that these students will continue
their education,” DeLaney said.

He believes it would be easier to recruit black students if
they were given black role models in the faculty. A greater

Fil Photo

 
   

by Ginger Phillips

F EA TURES EDITOR

The Washington and Lee theater
department will present its first pro-
duction of Tennessee Williams’ play
‘The Eccentricities ofA Nightingale’
this Friday at 8 p.m.

The protagonist, Alma Winemiller,
is awoman who isjust a little different
from everyone else. She is desparately
in love with John, a man who is so-
cially out ofher league.

“John sees that Alma is something
special, but he has his own familial
obligations and has to marry into high

society,” sophomore Julieann Ulin, who
plays one of the town eccentrics, said.

The action takes place one sum-
mer when Alma attempts to outlive the
madness in her family by searching
for love with John.

“This is one of Williams’ least-
known plays, and it presents a differ-
ent way of looking at his work,” Ulin
said. “Anyone can see ‘A Streetcar
Named Desire’ or ‘The Glass Menag-
erie,’ but this play offers a new twist
to a universal theme.”

‘Eccentricities’ will be performed in the
Johnson Theatre, and additional play
dates include Feb. 6, 8,9and l0, at8p.m.

number of black faculty members, therefore, is an important
change that needs to be made at W&L in the future if the
University is to continue to grow and improve itself.

The biggest problem that DeLaney sees, however, is
the lack of understanding between races. He is concerned
about the “segregation within integrated colleges that ex-
ists throughout the nation.”

“The self—segregation [on the part of both blacks and
whites] is really sad,” he said. “It will
take individual attempts on the part of
all the students to make sure they
make the campus into more of a com-
munity.”

Both black and white students have
the same role on campus — to “work
hard and to get a good education.”

DeLaney said that creating a com-
munity in which all students can

 

black sororities or fraternities and to pazti ‘ : in many other
activities that are provided to our £S()llr!1ClTH‘ti’lfs‘ at oil ier col leges.”

 

With the ratio ofblack 10 \.\‘l'lll:3 Sl1‘Ll».“«rl‘~, Eli V-'&i_ being so
small, the experience of the blur:-. imc'r:2 *.3I':«1(ll1'di(3 is deﬁ-
nitely a unique one.

“My experience here has l‘*371ll}' <;..ti;:~,. . .i me to mine out of my

shell and to approach people and ‘.,.il'l,1.'.llt)l'!S in 1it.llill.?I“‘;l1I way,”
Wade noted.

“Its ea.<;}’ for :1 i*.T:;=.=.‘l~: student to miss
out on 2» lot l>e«;.ue~n.. :mis_:li1 feel more
ll'lilt11lLlL¥l<:{lilL"C. ‘Ber; A‘ otithis fact,
l’ve leririietl that ifl -::.:n n..  it here,l

 

 

   

can niake it an_\'w'n.eic. ‘

l}H.:»' T’v‘i=v*I ;,-or ;;‘s ll‘.-skin ()3\‘
R.*.(‘is.\i An‘ V‘-.1

 

  
 
     

An:-re " " ’ 7 * Do’ it
peacefullyandhappilypursue thatend Sumbm M in n_lm:r£>f
Should be our pnmary goal‘ student at . . I .  agrees with

Del-;mv:_§. ‘J;  i'w;'l'.“.i"‘. that altliough
STUDENT PERSPECTIVES there well to iv; .: .§t—iHr.;t».._ -',%.rong ten-

Tarni Olubunmi, a black freshman,
spoke about the experiences she has had
at W&L. As a high school student, she
met Courtney Penn from the Admissions
Office ata college fair fortalented minority
students and learned more about W&L. .
Olubunmi said that the gorgeous campus,
ﬁiendly people and ﬁnancial aid brought
her to W&L, and she loves it here.

She has pledged a sorority, has a busy schedule and is
having fun. She does not see race as a major issue in her
own experience. While admitting that different students
may have different experiences, she said, “I’m used to hang-
ing out with different types of people and I really don’t
care what they look like.”

Olubunmi said that she has not experienced any racism
at W&L and hates it when “people play the race card” and
blame problems on their race. She expressed her belief in
the possibility for black students to have just as “normal”
21 life, socially and academically, as white students.

Other students believe that a racial problem does exist
on the W&L campus.

“I think that race is a serious problem here,” senior
Shanntonnette Wade said. “People try to sugarcoat the
situation or pretend that it doesn’t exist at all.”

Wade believes that people tend to ignore opportunities
to discuss the problem of minority students at W&L.

“When panels or discussion groups are held, the same
small group of people shows up,” she said. “Too many
people are disinterested and try to keep it all under wraps.
We need more people to make a real effort to solve the
racial problem on campus.”

Wade also thinks that the University could attract more
black students if a greater variety of social activities for
black students was provided.

“When prospectives come to visit W&L, the first thing
they ask about is what we do on the weekends,” Wade
said. “For black students, the social aspects of the school are
pretty limited because we don’t have the opportunity to join

Eels make waves 

By Matt LaMotte

MUSIC RE VIEWER

The late 1990s have brought about a revolution in
popular music. The divisions between rock, pop, hip-
hop, alternative and electronica have given way to a
general interest in combining every instrument and
every sound available in an effort to create textured
fields ofmusic that draw from almost every imagin-
able source.

Few bands have succeeded at this compositional medium
as well as eels.

Eels scored a modern rock hit in 1996 with “Novacaine for
the Soul,” atrippy, catchy single with an even trippier video.
All of the musical conventions from their earlier work appear
on their second album, “Electro-Shock Blues,” a unconven-
tionally delicious pop masterpiece.

Eels’ trademark drum samples, sleepy guitar lines, wist-
ful vocals and ir-
reverent lyricism
are now accompa-
nied by a host of
new unconven-
tional touches.

The ﬁrst single,
“Last Stop: This
Town,” begins
with what sounds
like a pleasant toy
keyboard melody
accompanied by
lead singer E’s
breathy vocals.
As the song
builds, electric
guitars, samples
drums, back-
ground singers
and eventually a
record-scratching groove enter the mix.

Instruments enter and exit randomly, almost anony-
mously, resulting in a patchwork ofrhythm and melody
that takes the listener through musical colors and tex-
tures that fascinate and delight. “My Descent Into Mad-
ness” incorporates sleigh bells with ajazzy bass line

 

    

had no trouble being happy as
a black student at W&L.

Photo courtesy of Drearnworks
Eels provides listeners with a musical
style that runs the gamut of emotions on
its new release Electro—SItock Blues.

  
 
   
  
  
 

.~' ziiul '-smite stu-
_.tr-ntly.
6:1 in 1985,

 

. .  in my rmpi-.=ssi-;;i= '~  l'<lL‘l~LE~’_UCl€lllS
Photo courtesy of Tami Olubunmi , _ .
\V'E3l‘Cl1lul‘vli‘I-':‘v‘ ' 2
Freshman Tam‘ Olubunmi has pus lllL“Ll'l1ll"-">L.‘:» run ;‘Iu'=‘» “.Vrt:Clou(lsaid.
"Nov.  ‘h.:;n  ~. -;

sitioms. of" it.’J.J.UCl =
 ” ’ sitiive trend.

:3x~rn1s eveii at

    

“Racism is a fact (ifiife .r;uL
W&L,” she said. adding. "lair. .   .
She believes that the pi'<\b!».,  x.‘.':l :1:-zes mainly

stem not from malicious l[i'LC?‘l  :2a:*l;;;1i. i‘lI1i';rS1':‘t,llO\\/—

ii.r\.S.

   
      
  
  
    
  

ever, but rather from “reall_x llkil 1-  W _ other and
being sort ofafraid to I1l;‘.‘a.‘l .  . . szudentsf‘
Students coming from Lii. ercztt =:i. I--econoniic
backgrounds merely do not l<i;<5n.'. im’-.~   to melt other,
and this is the problem that illils I *  ‘m.’\’;l . Campus.
In order to get these stu«'- he ‘ ‘mt ofeach

   
  
 

other’s pasts to meet and : several
student organizations ‘»VL“?:‘1r§.'t"at:t.‘ an  1

Programming forthc l{e..p-;;‘  i1:'..l~lt..lllrll‘l£1!l(i Diver-

   
 
 
 
 
 

 
  

sity in Education (PRll)l;‘; i~:.  2 2 *« zrm.  "21 project
that would improve campus lit. . mix’-ii» »'ll\L‘;‘~.ll':. 

The Minority Student A;-.5:-, -. rm  l‘orr.:-;2i‘l;. the
Student Association for Black ' sci up to “bring

about an understandirig anti  1, 92".». ~ tin‘ persons
of different backgr‘our::i<.“

This group brings ininnriw.  -- 2-.;i:;? =.itr1~s: .~'.; .'n.‘7;l~‘« togzether
in special activities. l'nelit~\.'iiig, in... o my ’ ‘~ nnrler‘stand—

  

ing and the willingness to ‘twhatz. ;

we’remore likely to COIIllT}l'i"  ». ~
McCloud said. "Olive f~1i.Ll‘:t'F.: ».  1

different background]. thz-_\‘  L.\l.t'.= ;
She feels that all the '—'!.“:«i~.l.l.

 

   

. uni? that all stu-

characteristics and speci: I .
dents will come out ot"t;oi" _ ._ ;. ‘mu .» «:;m;.‘ie;i«;t:: if
they will make an effort is ac; r » L :.:».= r‘  «i:l»:r. .»;r:: past

the differences and grow’ 
That’s good advice.

 

with an or-
gan before
yielding en-
tirely to E’s
voice ac-
companied
by drums
and a string
section that
brings to
mind a holi-
day cocktail
party, which

    

 

is joined
again by the la2iiil.i:_n r.>i';—_~;::‘: i.r<~u.;~~ * 

Sadness is ?1l1l1ili’,‘i‘°-.l'c‘I'.1L‘Ltlzlltél : ,;r:.:a :1 evident in
E3 lyrics. In the last. ye:1r.  izzv . ~.  1:69 W: <l<:d1i1 of
several family members, incl»;.=«l1r;_~ lll= ‘:1 .»m-xi:

Song titles 7.il._rg ‘*(}:,x;;ig  '\.".mr l’unera.|,”

 

“Cancer for the L‘ure”‘ me. ‘ .: \."l'r.‘:'lil‘2‘.ll0Il is

 :i!l'»u:n 2i!"l\\‘0l‘l(
».~ivzs-.2 that reads
i’initclg.‘rr.:t1ectE’s

 

that includes u \'.'&!'!ltlC-l‘ .: '6”
“Everything ‘.5 Cili‘iil}_‘.'i'i{.'.. 1*.‘

 
 
 

sense of loss zind :.e.i:;.i«.~:-Lg.

Thg un.;l¢rl‘\t1; ;- ,=v,tt’:" =0 ill\ ‘t\'<,)I‘Ll.*: 1511.1 his
sadness. h(W\,'t:VCE‘. Dali V net’ illfi :"t.‘ll¢:CliOI1S
throughout his or racing wzwgli for happiness.
Even though the zrllnmr  '  itli "xiakiiig up is

 

so much harder xvlu it 50::   ‘Lu rile.” it doesn’t
linger in deprcsxum. 2.-. l 
When he sings on the "Q:-.14. -:
your warm ClI1l)I‘2‘aL‘ .1 aw: an
he is tr'_\_'ing. and the  '.~-:.r \—.

sic makes fora. c<>iiipeil'iu:- :.«.\ 31.11‘.

124. l\‘ “take me in
" sou know

   

 

By the last song rm tin.  “.‘v‘ ‘~1. ‘rot: Rock
My World.” 13 has i;wi~:~ lil 4: ;<»_eng~let«:l_V 'ncalthy
and reniarltable ».:p;pliu_z,a. "1 \.:».a~. '=t .3 Ilium.-i‘al the
day I realiared 3 l ‘\‘.Ztl'.lL,'(l .=~. ~,iv¢:‘itl rn_\ l§lk“wi1l;)oti,” .
he sings. br:i’orr.:‘coin-l1r.ii=i;; the album‘: with “maybe
it’stime to live.”
Eels have been t'l'l‘ilI‘; :‘- «- *.~ “’ ‘  «uE?:~‘r'u.:;.ii. but

in tnitlr. there i:-:r."‘ '
close to their SOUII-;1.

“Electro-Shock Blues” is it t1’!l)tl:,“‘l1 masterpiece and ex-
empliﬁes a fantastic n<:\\.' Ll i:':.x:tim‘~ x7l’T7(Z'i‘.i.1l£Ii’ music.

 

 

 

1 Men’s  

  ‘ﬂoats,

 

 

   

 

FEBRUARY 1, 1999

@112 ﬂting-tum lﬂhi

PORTS

 

PAGE 5

swimming

«women
,sink

By Steele
Cooper

q STAFF WRITER

Saturday, the Washington
and Lee men’s and women’s swim
teams faced off against Mary

Vwashington in the ﬁnal regular sea-
son meet in the Warner Center of the
year. The men took the win from MWC
by a 109-73 margin to up their record

‘to 7-5. The women fell to Mary Wash-
ington with a score of 1 17-68 to fall to 9-
6 on the year.

Sophomore Colin Hayes placed ﬁrst
in three events to lock in the win for the

‘Generals. Hayes won the 200 free
(1 :49.80), the 100 ﬂy (53.57), and the
500 free (5:06.45), in the redeeming
victory over Mary Washington.

“We lost this one against Mary
Washington last year on the very
last event,” Hayes said. “Everyone
swam really well on Saturday, so we

i were really pumped to win.”

L Two swimmers each earning a pair of

’ irst place finishes also paced the Gener-

qls. Sophomore Mike Miraglia won the

ZDO IM with atime of 2:06.56 and the 100

, b. ast with atime of 1:04.74. Junior co-

‘ea tairi Jared Fribush continued his irn-
prc sive domination of the 50 free and
100 free. Fribush once again crushed
the ﬁeld with respective times of 49.54 and 22.19.

“We have all been swimming well, and now it’s time to
look toward the bigger tough meets at Emory and Davidson.
1 think we’re in a good position and ready to do well,” Fribush
said.

While the women may have lost Saturday’s match

Wagainst MWC, the day still had its bright spots.

Young talent was victorious alongside veteran wins for
the Generals. Freshman Laura Ingoldsby won her 1000 free
event with a time of 1 1:40.67. Senior captain Margaret Hoehl
continued to bring in the wins. Hoehl won the 200 free

'(2;oo.09) and the 100 ﬂy(1:03.05).

Washington and Lee will next be in action Saturday, Feb.

6 when the Generals travel to Atlanta to take on Emory.

 
 
 
 

  
   
    
    
  
   
     
   
   

Guilford Saturday afternoon at
the Warner Center.

The win snapped the Gen-
erals’ nine-game losing streak
and set new season highs in
both total points and margin of
victory.

“It feels good, it feels real
good,” W&L head coach Kevin
Moore said following the victory.
“We needed to get a win just so
we could feel good about what
we’re doing.”

The Quakers (3-16, 2-12)
dressed only seven players and
were playing their second game in
fewer than 24 hours. Guilford lost
to Randolph-Macon 67-60 on Fri-
day night before coming to Lexing-

ton. '

“Guilford was a little undennanned
and it was definitely a disadvantage
for them,” Moore said. “We wanted to
work the tempo up because they only
had seven guys.”

Junior forward Scott Hudson shot
9-10 from the ﬁeld and scored a career-
high 21 to spearhead the winning ef-
fort. Hudson met with the coaching
staff the previous day to work on be-
ing more aggressive on the offensive
end. It paid off on Saturday afternoon.

“I went out with a different mental-
ity that I was going to score and it just
worked out,” Hudson said.

Junior center Rich Peterson scored

17 points on 6-6 shooting from
,_ the ﬁeld. Junior guard Matt
3‘ W. Jackson had a big day off the
bench for the Generals with

15 points in only 12 minutes 0

of play. Jackson was 6-7 from
the ﬁeld including 3-4 from behind the
arc.

The Generals (4-13, 3-8) shot 68%
from the ﬁeld in the second half and
62% for the game. The combination of
Jackson, Hudson and Peterson shot a
near-perfect2l—23 (91%) from the field.
The Generals also had a season-high
21 assists and a season—low 11 tum-
overs. ‘

“We’re starting to play well to-
gether, especially the big men inside,”
Hudson said. “We were ready to play

By Brendan Harrington _ -
STAFF WRITER if

The Washington and t 0 d a y
Lee men’s basketball team and We
grabbed their ﬁrst victory of executed
1999 with an 87-69 win over b e t t e r

than in
t h e
past.”

T h e
g a m e
w e n t
back and
forth for
most of
the first
half until
W&L went
ona21-6runthat
covered the last 3 :52
of the ﬁrst half and
the ﬁrst 5:24 of the
second half. The
Generals never
trailed in the sec-
ond half,
0 u t s c o r i n g
Guilford48-37.

The Generals .
struggled from
the free-throw
line down the
stretch, leaving the
victory in question un-
til the final minutes of the
game. The Generals were
only 13-24 (54%) from
the charity stripe in the
second half.

Sophomore forward
Jon Evans led the
Quakers with 15
points. The Quakers
shot only 41% from the
ﬁeld for the game.

The Generals are now
tied with. Lyneliburg for’,
the final playoff spot in
the ODAC tournament.
The Hornets upset
Bridgewater 71-68 in over-
time on Saturday night.
The Generals host
Bridgewater on Monday
night and Virginia Wesleyan
on Wednesday night.

“We have three more games
at home in the next seven days
and that’s a good springboard
for us,” Hudson said. “From now
on, ’99 is our year.”

 

The Washington and Lee ice
hockey team won their ﬁrst game of
the season 8-1 against the C-League
all-star team after their scheduled op-
ponent, Roanoke College, failed to
show up on Saturday afternoon.

Junior Jamie Buckley scored four of
the goals, freshman Matt Jacobs
slammed in two, and Senior Greg Banks

and Sophomore Jeff Sloan each
picked up one. Senior Torn Wadlow
made an assist.

* Unlike most treams in the
league, W&L does not have
practices.

This was their ﬁrst victory

since thier one-year suspension . _

ended two years ago.

   
      
   
    
  
   
   
  
  
  

V
E g,a3e»eet,éi’2
,1 .
YOZ/I/6’ put 17-20 years into educating and
preparing yourself. In your eareeryou’ll work
» another 30-35 years.
Its time fora éreak.
N At t/Je/l Baril Guestltancb, in the mountains

ofSout/tern VVyoming, you can:

Meet /aundreds of new people and make
interesting friends/azps as you do enjoyable work.
.7 Horseback ride, ﬁs/7, play tennis and golf and
go camping — all on 200 sq. miles ofprioate
land t/Jat backs up to another 200 sq. miles of
national forest and wilderness area.

" Get a check at the end of October for $3,000
to $5, 000 to use for travel, apartment deposits
— to get your new life started . . .

Call or e-mail today for more information or to
schedule an on-campus interview. Bob or
Margie Howe, Managers, (303) 838-1950 or
abararane/J@aol. com

 

.‘,‘-a
$51



 

Toyot 5 
* oyot ‘Dealer

worldwide

--t  ..,....--

 

'.».
4

514'»).

.23’

. 1 :,,_.§: 1

‘ . V * vingsrb on comparison of '99
» Corolla equ ed with options gglggg .
comparably uipped—‘98‘C6f6l a.’ Corolla A
is flie best 5

3‘.3Le.§----—'"""

,,.....-.

   

  Men’s b-ball
wins ﬁrst game

  
    
 

Y9? C3“

   
  

,.

g car in history, bue 

Women win again

Freshman center Jessica Mentz sets school
record as Washington and Lee women’s ‘
basketball team takes fourth in a row '

By Tod Williams

STAFF WRITER

  lVl0RE’CAR‘F'OK’[

,,-..(No~Matter~Wl1at“'Y° 1'

From the looks of things this week,
women’s basketball at W&L is on the
upswing. With two last-second wins
and a record setting performance from
freshman center Jessica Mentz, the
Generals have a four-game winning
streak, a new record for the program.

The week ended for the Lady Gen-
erals with a 56-55 last-second win over
Emory & Henry on Saturday in Emory,
Va. On Thursday, W&L crushed
Lynchburg 82-54, just after the Gener-
als had narrowly edged Virginia
Wesleyan 71-70 on Tuesday.

W&L’s victory over the Wasps
came in dramatic fashion. With lead
changes throughout the game, the
outcome was sure to be down to the
wire.

With fewer than four minutes re-
maining, the Generals were down 53-
47, but a 7-0 run by the Generals left
them ahead 54-53, with only 35 sec-
onds left. On E&H’s next trip down
the ﬂoor, Erin Kyle sank a layup that
put the Wasps up 55-54 with only 34
seconds left to play. ,

But 34 seconds was enough time
for W&L’s Mentz to go to work. She
connected on a layup of her own, giv-
ing the Generals a 56-55 lead, which

they would take into the locker room.
Mentz lead the Generals, posting 17

3% points off an’ 8-for-10 performance.

Fellow freshmen Sarah Schmidt and

Megan Babst added eight and

seven points, respectively, to the
Generals’ cause.

The team’s lone senior, Chrissy
Burghardt, only connected on one ﬁeld
goal, and was 2-for-2 from the line, but
those four points put her just 10 away

..rn5n1'_the 1,000’ career points mark.

Burghardt would be the ﬁrst woman
at W&L to break 1,000 points.

“I’m just ready to get it over with,”
Burghardt said of the chase. “It’s not
really on my mind, though. We’re play-
ing really well now, so I just want to
win.”

Although Thursday night’s game
was a blowout, it wasjust as event-
ful for the team, as well as some in-
dividuals. The 82 points from the
team is its highest total of the year.
The win was Coach Terri Dadio
Campbell’s 50th victory at W&L, but

the real story on the night was again
Jessica Mentz.

Mentz set a new W&L record with
her game-high 30 points, almost half
of which came from her 12-for-17 per-
formance from the charity stripe. She
said the biggest factor in her scoring
is how “the guards are looking to pass
inside more than before, and that’s the
only way I can score.”

Mentz attributed the team’s tre-
mendous improvements in play
throughout the season to a meeting
the team held a couple weeks ago.
“We had a practice where we just
talked the whole time. We discussed
where we’re going as a team, and since
then, we’ve really come together. No
one is playing as an individual any-
more.”

Junior Jessica Morton added 10 for
the Generals, while Burghardt netted
nine points, but led the team with her
12 boards. Lynchburg freshman Erika
Smith led the Hornets with 16 points,
and fellow freshman Joharri Bass
scored eight, pulled down 10 re-
bounds, and refused soup to the Gen-
erals seven times.

On Tuesday night, W&L junior
guard Ansley Miller connected on
two clutch free throws with only 2.5
ticks left on the clock, to give the Gen-
erals the 71-70 win. Earlier Miller had
nailed two free throws to give W&L a
69-68 lead. The Generalsjumped out
to an early lead over the Marlins, but
trailed 35-30 at halﬁime.

Miller topped the Generals’ scor-
ing column with 20 points, nine of
which came from the free-throw line.
Mentz was again a huge contributor
with her 16 points, and Burghardt
added 15 points and nine boards.

Nancy Mattox led the Marlins in

scoring. Fifteen of her 17 points came

in her huge second half.

The Generals (8-9, 7-6 ODAC)’

will host Randolph-Macon
Women’s College at 7 p.m. on Tues-
day at the Warner Center. In De-
cember, RMWC defeated the Gen-
erals 86-79. Burghardt said that loss
came from a “rough game with a lot
of fouls.” The Generals _had two
players foul out, while RMWC lost
three. A total of 56 fouls were
called. But she said that with the
freshmen stepping up as they are
now, “we’ll make up for losing that
one.”

 

“;;i?§6"c“;.;¢iit’t

 

   

AJI-

orwlcss Than La it Year’)

 

I
1.

tutu. \..

35
E3
2‘
:5
§

    

.//’~:‘<2‘=e’'»i!Y9vﬁ'errj?.v‘C.=§7bi’7}m§§3§ ‘  '0

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

<12
2.9 e v
. o~ - ' t ;
S-4
o .
PAGE 6 FEBRUARY 1, 1999 v ,
0 O 0 0 0
“The Thlll R€d LlIl€° 9’ lll‘€ aI'tlStl ret Iltl0Il
- C C »
By Kevin ]\/Ic1\/[anemin The acting l5 W0ndernil- Nick Nolte . Throughout the ﬁlm we are sub— as the ﬁlm constantly reminds us. Oh, The movie starts with a whimper much is because it really let me down.
Lr_ COLONEL CH,4RuE C0Mp,iNy turns ln the best Performance Of hiS iected to a patently ridiculous narra- and love conquers all, if we learn any- and ends with awhimper—~there ma It had such rear otential! lt’s one
, _ Y 8 P
Career 35 C_°l0nel Tell. the hardened tiVe SP0l<en by an aeter trying to sound thing from one of the soldier’s frequent be some great bangs in the middle but thing to watch a bad movie that never Pg:
career soldier who will win the battle very deep and serious in a Southern ﬂashbacks to his wife. But then she they’re not enough to save the ﬁlm. had any ambition to be good —— like ‘ ‘
at any cost. Sean Penn, Woody accent. I cannot put into words how dumps him. Love sucks? War sucks? The movie drags on for what seems “Lethal Weapon IV”——but it’s another
Harrelson anddohn Cusack are all laughable this is. lt’s utterly distract- Love is war? War is hell? Or is the like hours before we get into the battle, thing to see potential so utterly and
Wonderful as his subordinates. mg, and it’s as ifthe director is so un- theme that man has lost his innate and drags on for what seems like four completely thrown away. ,
Hell,eVen.the cinematography was sure that the story and images will goodness, as the narrator tells us? months from the battle to the end. This movie is like thetime Michael l‘
(Do NOT, UNDER ANy ‘I R- excellent. This was a visually stunning convey the thematic points that he has The ﬁlm is a philosophic muddle, and Combine all ingredients in a large Jordan joined minor league baseball.
(uMs1'AN¢Es 5E E 1'|-| |s tllin, Perhaps 8 bit CiVerbl0Wn at times to Just come right out and tell us. this isn’t helped by: reel. Bake at 450°. Chill before serv- lt’s awaste oftalent, awaste ofpoten-
MOVIE. All. COPIES OF THIS but hohelheless llnlf°”nlY gorgeous which bring US t0I The worst pacing in the history of ing. tial and awaste of the audience’s time.
|=| |_M 5|-| ou L]; 3 E D E- 30 What Went Wrong? 0r, t0 Steal ‘c1 A liberal sprinkling of themes cinema The reason 1 hate this movie so Don’twaste your time on this ﬁlm. ’
51-ROYED AND EVE RYONE quote from the ﬁlrn: . . You’d think that a ﬁlm that focuses '
|Nvo|_vED |N TH E PRODU¢- “This great eV|l, Where did it Come on thematic development over plot de-
-"ON MUST BE ExE¢u-I-ED from? How did it steal into the world? velopment would at least have the A l   E  L U S I E '
AND THEIR SEED w|pED How did we lose the good that was common f"‘**ing decency to pick a I
|:RoM 1-H E E A311] 50 11..|A1- given us?” theme and stick with it. i.
M A N I“ N D W. L L N EVE R Recipe for artistic pretention: “Nature is cruel,” Colonel Tall tells o o 0 . o
AGAIN HAVE To 5ul:|:ER lcup artsy, reclusive director one ofhis men. Great. With all the im-        
1-H is a NEMA1-|¢ MON- Director Terrence Malick has not ages of the wild wildlife on the islands, , _
smos-m directedanvomgthwmcaiiv tharwouidmakeawonderfuitheme. who didn’t watch the Super Bowl last night
beloved “Days of Heaven” in But wait. Nature is also beautiful, V
“ HI‘ I m a guy‘ I hhefvar memes‘ _l978‘ The pmhlelh ls that Mahck His name is Ervin Teasdale. He is a 48-year-oldEar, Ervin: Well, maybe I should have gone to Chuck’s

Apocalypse Now’ huh Mehh lsavery talented dllecmh and he Nose and Throat Specialist with his own practice in [fellow Ear, Nose and Throat specialist Dr. Charles
éahhett’ R Ghlry’ hhlatooh’ Sal/mg wahts lh lhahe sure the alldlehce Spokane, Washington. Sunday night, while millions of Harrison] Super Bowl party. They were getting pizZa——

“Va e yah ah es? repressht some khows ll‘ Thls ls why he used: American men crowded around oversized television that way I wouldn’thave had to make dinner. Of course «ll
o.f the ghﬁﬁtest mils m the hlston/,0f _ A 2l3'page scrlpt and 3 lhll‘ screens to hoot and holler for their team of choice in they probably would have gotten it from Italian Village
einenia- ere are eW genres in Which lion feet of ﬁlm ' the Super Bowl, Ervin watched something else. This is and they make it so damn greasy there.
phwerfhl hhlhah dhalha ahd blg expl°' N0» l dldnlt rnlsplaee 3 deel‘ his incredible story. LW: Who would you like to see perform atnext year’s
slohs °°mhlhe_ qhhe so well as they ln3lP0lnt- Mallek Shdtrnere than Last Word: Ervin,why didn’t you watch halftime show?
do lh War mhwes‘ _ 3 lhlllloh feet °f hlm t° Pleee t0‘ the Superbowl? Ervin: John Denver. l‘

Th? Thlh Red Llhe’ Terrehch gethel "ho lhls lhovles several Ervin: Well, footballjust doesn’tinter— LW: He’s dead.
Mahhk S eplc hhh about the wwh lllheslhs amohhl homlally used‘ est me. A bunch of steroid-pumped goons Ervin: John Denver’sdead?
Ejlhllei ffiahcahal’ hoped to hhh _ Whh ah eplc story lhls °Xpah' running from one end of a ﬁeld to another LW: Yup. Plane crash.
15 ls h 1h hmgghah S whgmovles slvet the mhvle becomes 3 °““' trying to knock each other down —— what’s Ervin: Wow. Just like the Big Bopper. ,
—_ movleh gvh a hhh’1\‘;h ,a Gin‘ Ohs °°hlladl_°h°h_th_e twh holll so interesting about that? LW: Uh-huh.
Smohs’ wh ka Tessage‘, ovhlesl t at ahd hhy lhlhlhe lhhhlhg “me ls LW: So what did you watch instead? Ervin: Country roads, take me home. . .
‘llethle W°l 5° “"’”°‘_J“5” 3 ates‘ both tattoo long and not nearly Ervin: An old episode of “Saturday LW: To the placelbelong. .. .
packaged Hollywood drivel. long enough Night Live» on Comedy Cemml_ Ervin: West V,-rgl~m-a_ ‘ . .;
Mahck had _5°°‘l hhehh°hS' lhlfor‘ Characters ale lhhodlhfed and LW: How was it? LW: Mountain Mama. . . V '
turziatelyillie failed miserably with the never developed. Plot points are Ervin: OK, I gueSS_ Chevy Chase was Dr. Teasdale, Ervin and LW: Country wads, take me
en resu . 1 _ _ _ _ _ , - »
That bein Said there were man 8 0Seed 0Ver NOW: 0n t0P Ofthnta A young soldier cues out In pm“ the host. I ve never been a big fan of his. the man Wh0 home. I
ma“ reatthgin sa’b tth. fl Thy add‘ ' _ like an audience member who LW: So you missed all those delightful missed the Ervin: That one’s for you, John. 
‘YE 8 0n 15 iin- e  tablespoons ridiculous _uSt realized h d $6 75 t supergowl commercials? Super Bowl, LW: Lovely. Any othercommentsforthe 
achoh scenes are as good as ahy ever Phll050Phl° narrntwe l_ ,6 paye ° 0 Ervin: It’s not like they won’t be show- rest of the Super Bowl-watching male spe-
hhhed' Sn through thls crap‘ ing them every day for the next two months. cies? I
Those cute Budweiser frogs and that Taco Bell Chihua- Ervin: If you ever have any ear, nose or throat prob- I
’ hua aren’t so cute after the 954th time. lems, don’t be afraid to come talk to a professional. I;
T e    LW: Do you have any regrets about missing the Su- LW: Thank you for yourtirne, Sir- , I
per Bowl? Ervin: Thank you for having me. f
Sizereoigpe Forum J.
V ‘| ‘ ‘ ‘I 1 r 1 r 1
ISSUE: IM l’IsA(,IlMI'.N I I RIAL - ~ 
H k i
h’ b°t h ° '
im 1 C 1S sooooooo mutinous '1'
problems emb rr ' '
a assmg swine Gram,
enrollment at the )
University of Florida is
projected to increase more than
20 percent in the next five years.This i
growth offers talented students an
unprecedented opportunity to
continue their education at one of V
America's finest public universities. E»
Come see what makes the University
of Florida so special.
9 Many nationally competitive funding ’
By Lucky D B; Mary Elizabeth Priddy By Captain Brownbeard °PP°rtUnltle5 tor t°P Student-5
stereotypical street pimp mereotypical sorority girl stereotypical pirate 9 More than $l00 million in new research
facilities
iii‘). C0“ hob 1' on t'='=3 153'i’= ‘=”=’~‘~5-'7 937 -'3:~' God. Did you see that dress Dar. This be quite a a predicatment, A - ll ‘ d f ’
:r.rr.-;- tonight? No? All right.  - .\ior.::a Lewinsky was wearing on the says 1. Captain Clinton be sailing in . _ hatloha Y recogmze, Program, or
low‘. me to pontificate on the i”~.su':7~. of news the other day? It was so hid- dark waters. Avast! Thar be a mutiny lhtegratlhg computers lnto teachmg and
the day. sods. itrnade licrhips look enormous, afoot! Clinton’s crew be mutinous research
A may i sees it‘, all this talk about and let 5 face it, Monica has a big swine. . O A geographically and culturally diverse
lmpcachm and Senate trials and per- , xteigm problem. Monica needs to A captain has to keep the scurvy student bod of more than 40 000 ‘l
iur; and what not all really be about take her daddy‘s credit card and buy sea dogs on his ship in line. lfthey be Y ’
one thing A—— Clinton can't control his a new wardrobe. grumbling about not ettin enou h 9 More than 70 doctoral de ree ro rams
_ _ _ _ . g . 8 8 3 8 P 3
bitches. Linda Tripp is atotal bitch. I would plunder and be talking about mutiny, and more than l00 master's degree
Sheecet, blood, aman gots to know totally hate her ifshe were one ofmy then punish them, says I! lfthat muti— programs in 20 colleges and schools ,‘
how to talk to his bitches. friends and taped my conversations nous swine Ken Starr was on my ship, _ _ , '
Like this ho Monica, you gotta talk like that. What a backstabber! She’s The Hispaniola, l’d keelhaul his yel- , . lnnovatlve degree °PP°l'tl-lhltlesi
sweet to .\/lonica. Clinton, he gotta say like my ex-best friend Kaitlin, who low hide before my parrot Polly could including interdisciplinary, joint-degree
“baby, baby, you know i loves youf went behind my back andtold Mary say “pieces-of—eight.” ai’iCl‘COml3lI'ied bachelor's/master's
You know you and I is in it together? Susan that I have a major crush on Thar be only one way to keep or— programs )1
You know how hard I works for you. Brian, and .‘\/lary Susan totally flipped der in the Senate, and that be with the . .
Be cool, baby. l)on’ttcstify." Then he because she was dating Brian and cat-o-ninetails! Afew lashes willkeep . A great. locatlon In affordable . .
give her some lovin’ and she’ll do now she hates me and it’s all Kaitlin’s those mutinous dogs at bay, Galheshllle — ohe °t Monet’ lhagazlhe s
whatever he says, straight up. fault. l’m never going to tell her any- Clinton will ﬁnd himselfon the gal- ‘ most hvable Cities” T" offers ldeal Year" .
Bitch likcllillary,though,only thing thing again. Oh, and the other day on lows if he doesn’t do away with this mund Weather. With an average A
she understand is a slap in her ugly campus Kaitlin came up to me and feisty bar wench Lewinsky. Walk the temperature of 70 degrees and
face. “Shut ‘cho mouth, ho,” is all she was all “oh hi Mary Elizabeth!” plank! Belay herto Davy Jones’ locker! moderate seasons
Clinton gots to say to her. and she acted all buddy buddy, like Yar!Yar! Yar!
And ifthis cat Ken Starr be mackin’ nothing ever happened. What a slut! A thousand doubloons for the head ii
on Clinton’s bitches, only thing to do ln conclusion, I think that this ofLinda Tripp! A barrell ofrum to the  
is pull out a switchblade and slit his whole impeachment thing is, like, a sailor who cuts Ken Starr’stongue out g1-adfel[oW_uﬂ_edu/wl
white ass up. mega—embarrassment forthe country, of his throat! That be the way to deal .
Sometimes a man gotta be a man. and a total fashion tragedy. That robe with impeachment.
Now, how about it, slick‘? $20 to’ a Rehnquist wears # is there anything D’yar, keelhaul the mutinous swine, V
blow, $l0() fo’ mo’. My hocs’l| rock more frumpy? Let’sendthis madness, says ll Brownbeard the pirate says
yo’ world. at least before skit night. Cookies? Keelhaul them all! D’yar yar yar.
R

 

    
   
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  

 

