  
 

VOLUME 101, NUMBER 1

Washington and Lee University

U112 iiting-tum Iﬂlii

Bulk Rate
US I‘osugc
I’/\ll)
Pcrmii No. 7
lxxingion. V:i.

Monday
SEPTEMBER 14, 1998

Osama bin Ladin beware . . .
Mission Embassy of Kazakhstan," General Anthony C.

Harvard drinking survey
reconfirms ’93 results

BY POLLY Doro
——-——-— STAFF WRIIER

More than half of all college stu-
dents are binge drinkers, according to
a recent study conducted by Harvard
University.

The Harvard School of Public
Health College Alcohol Survey, which
in 1993 addressed and raised national
awareness concerning college binge
drinking, released updated» information
last Thursday. The study found a slight
decrease in the percentage of binge
drinkers (42.7 percent), and a slight in-
crease in the percentage of students
who abstain from drinking (19.0 per-
cent). However, the study found that
four out of ﬁve residents of fraternities
and sororities (81.1 percent) could be
classiﬁed as binge drinkers, virtually
the same as those numbers of ﬁve years
ago.

“I think fraternities are so mired in
alcohol, they’re so into it that they can’t

give it up,” said Henry Wechsler, who
headed both studies, in an interview
with The Associated Press.

The 1993 Harvard College Alcohol
Study propelled the issue of binge
drinking into the national spotlight.
However, the more recent study results
demonstrate that in spite of height-

V ened awareness, numbers remain dis-

appointingly high.

Several high proﬁle alcohol-related
deaths have forced both college ad-
ministrators and Greek organizations
alike to take a hard look at this issue.
Instances at Louisiana State Univer-
sity and the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology have made national
headlines. The MIT incident, which
involved the alcohol-related death of
a Phi Gamma Delta (Fiji) pledge, has
played a factor in the national
chapter’s decision to go “dry,” or al-

.cohol-free, in 2000. Because of sky-

rocketing insurance costs, other na-

 
 

I STUDENT-FACULTY

THE HONOR SYSTEM

tional chapters are also instituting (or
contemplating) similar policies.

In Lexington, where the survey re-
sults could not be called shocking, the
penalties associated with drinking are
becoming more costly. Charges of
drinking/drunk in public in the Com-
monwealth of Virginia now carry with
them ﬁnes ofup to $250, while under-
age possession is penalized with a
mandatory $500 ﬁne and a possible 12
month loss of one’sdrivers license.
DUI is punishable by a $2,500 ﬁne, the
immediate impounding of the vehicle,
and a 12 month loss of one’sdrivers
license.

In spite of increased awareness and
stiffer penalties, the survey results
point to continued pursuance of what
can be a dangerous activity.

“It’s discouraging . . . that univer-
sities have been unable to convince
college students to choose a healthier
lifestyle,” said Dean Anne Schroer-
Lamont of the survey results.

  

World leaders and dignitaries gathered at the Sev-
enth Annual United States Mideast Policymakers C on-
)/erence at the Virginia Military Institute this weekend.
The National Council on U.S.-Arab Relations-spon-
sored conference hopes to encourage a better rela-
tionship between US and Arab nations.
Pictured here are Khairat Umarov, Deputy Chief of

Convocation opens

HEARING BOARD

Two cases of sexual miscon-
duct were referred to the SF HB.
In the first case, a male student
was found guilty of inappro-
priate sexual behavior. Restric-
tions on housing arrangements
and counseling were required.
In the second case, a male stu-
dent was found guilty of en-
gaging in sexual activity with a
woman who was incapacitated.
The student was suspended.

The Executive Committee con-
ducted 14 investigations, held
3 closed hearings and found 1
student guilty of an Honor Vio-
lation. Three students withdrew
prior to a closed hearing.
Students 94-95 <I><I><I><I>
found guilty 95-96 (Dd)
of an Honor 96-97 <jD<I)cD
Violation 97-98 CD

UNIVERSITY BOARD OF APPEALS
The University Board of Ap-
peals heard four appeals, one

Zinni, C ommander-in-chief United States Central
Command; and Sir Cyril Townsend, Director of the
Council for the Advancement of Arab-British Under-
standing. A celebration in honor of the delegates will
take place on the VMI parade ground at 4:30 today.
1’H()7‘() BY /‘[()[.I.l.S‘TER H()VI£Y/EXE(.'(/IIVE EDITOR

\
e\,

K
: *5

STUDENT JUDICIAL
REPORT 1997-98

   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
   

and Lee University kicked off the
new academic year and the 250"‘
Anniversary Celebration with an
elaborate bicenquenquagenary con-
vocation. The ceremony took place
in frbnt of the recently-renovated
Lee Chapel and included speeches
and performances by various mem-
bers of the Washington and Lee
community. Noteworthy alumnus,
William E. Brock ’53 gave the con-
vocation address.
The ceremony began with a pro-
cession of academic representatives
, from over 50 universities and colleges
around the country, including a repre-
sentative from Trinity College in
Dublin, Ireland. Members of academic
societies such as Omicron Delta and
\ Phi Beta Kappa followed. Members of
the faculty and the senior class also
took part in the opening procession.
A prayer by Chaplain Thomas V.
Litzenburg, Jr. opened the ceremony,
followed by remarks by President John
' ' Elrod. Various members of the Wash-
ington and Lee community, including
a myriad of campus leaders, presented
their ideas about the history of this
institution and the values it has come
to embody. They stressed most impor-
tant of these values to be “leaming,
leadership and honor,” which has be-
come the new bicenquenquagenary
slogan.
In addition to the numerous speak-
ers, the opening convocation was en-
livened by a number of artistic presen-
tations specially commissioned by the
university for the event. This series of
performances began with a poem by
W&L English Professor and Pulitzer
Prize Nominee Dabney Stewart entitled
“Generals.” Next, a brass quintet per-
formed a work of modern music en-
titled “Celebration,” Magaret Brouwer,
‘ a former W&L music professor and
well-known musican composed this
piece especially for the convocation
ceéebration.
As the music faded, the much-

' l (D Peeved at
Parking?
CD Woods Creek
. lacks lighting
PAGE 2  

 

 

dress. Over the course of his speech,
Brock emphasized his love of and
gratitude to Washington and Lee. He
stressed the idea that values learned
at W&L profoundly effect not only the
indivdual contributions a graduate
makes to society, but the impact those
values have on our rapidly changing

promotes the enhancement of liv-
ing and learning in inner-city
schools. He also served as a Sena-
tor and National Chairman of the
Republican party.

The University Chamber Singers
closed the evening’s festivities with
a performance of W&L music pro-
fessor Terry Vosbein song, entitled
“An Anthem for all Time.” After
President Elrod’s closing thoughts
they also sang the “Washington
and Lee Hymn.”

As the sun set, members of the uni-
versity comunity shared dinner on the
Lee House lawn. —John Stewart con-
tributed to this article

struction. I

PRESIDENTIAL ACTIONS

was suspended indeﬁnitely.

STUDENT AFFAIRS COMMITTEE
The SAC reviewed two cases in 1997-
98. Pi Kappa Alpha and Sigma Nu were
placed on Critical Probation for violations
of the IFC alcohol rules and property de-

The President of the University deter-
mined that the actions of members of the
Kappa Alpha fraternity violated the Uni-
versity Policy on Hazing and represented
a severe threat to the well-being of the
University community. Ten students were
suspended for one year and Kappa Alpha

t h I ll I Dean David Howison released the an- from the SAC, one from the SJC
nual student judicial report on Sept. 1. In and two from the SFHB. Number of 94'95 ‘Dam’

1997-98, the Executive Committee con- 94-95 cpqxp cases SFHB 95'96 ‘D
ducted fewer investigations and the Stu- Number 95-95 qp reviewed 95'97 ‘D

1 BY ABIGAIL  Y W awaited speaker wiiiiam E_ Brock iii’ wo,id_ Brock is cuiremiy Chairman dent Judicial Council held fewer hearings ofdppeals 96_97 qxpcpq) 97-98 (Dd)

TAFF RHER W&L graduate and former Secretary of the Board at I ntellectual Devel- than in 1996‘97- 97-98 (134303)
On September 9th, Washington of Labor, gave the convocation ad— opment Systems, a Compani’ Which '"ewSb0x by Tamh Oran’ MEDIATION

Dean David Howison and Associate Dean Anece McC1oud reviewed
3 cases of alleged uncivil behavior. One was racial in content, one
involved e-mail harassment and one case involved physical assault.
The three cases were resolved in mediation.

Numbe, 94-95 <I><I><I><I>cD
Ofcases 95-96 <I><D<D<I><1><I><I><I><I>
,e,,-awed 96-97 d><I>CD(I>

97-98 <1><1><I>

pended from the University.

Number
of cases
reviewed

Saturday morning debauchery begins again

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON brother Marshall Schreeder serves up a drink at this year ’s first football tailgate
Saturday at the ruins. I’H()'l'() Ii)’ ]‘[()l.I,lS'l'l;'R HoV/Jr/EX1;(.'i/11V/zjE1)/mu

W&LIFE

(I3 Lost in Lex?
Let us guide you.
(1) Clinton came in ’88,
but did you knoW...?

PAGE 3.9

SPORTS

 

STUDENT JUDICIAL COUNCIL
Of the 17 cases heard, 14 involved men and 4 cases involved women.
Fifteen of the cases involved alcohol. Three students were sus-

94-95 <I><I><I><I><I><I><I><I>(I>(I><D(D

95-96  ¢¢¢¢®

96-97 (I><I><I><I>(I><l>(I>(I><I><D(D(I>d>(I>(I><D<D(I><I><I><I>Cl>(I><l><I><D
97-98 <D<D<I>d><D<D<I>(I><I><I><D<D(I>(I><I>(I><D

Washington and

Lee’s rank falls

BY ESZIER PADos
""‘—"""—"‘—""STAFF ‘X/RIIER

Washington and Lee University
has been ranked among the country’s
top liberal arts colleges for the 12th
consecutive year in U.S. News &
World Report magazine’s annual sur-
vey.

W&L is now ranked 1 lth among
national liberal arts colleges, the
school’s second best ranking ever next
to last year.

The annual survey by U.S. News
& World Report utilizes categories
such as academic reputation, student
retention, faculty resources, student
selectivity, ﬁnancial resources and
alumni contributions to evaluate
school standards in these areas.

Also recently released, the
Princeton Review’s annually pub-
lished guidebook “The Best 31 1 Col-
leges” summarizes the personal opin-
ions of 56,000 students attending col-
leges ranked among the best in the
nation. Students rate their colleges in

areas ranging from academics to cam-
pus life, including parties, food and
dorms. The guide features everything
from “best academics” to “Jock
School” (Wabash College), “Best
Dorms” (Randolph-Macon Women’s
College) and “Best Campus Food”
(College of the Atlantic). The survey
reveals that W&L has the happiest
students in the nation, as well as the
most beautiful campus. W&L was also
ranked #1 for major fraternity and so-
rority scene, as well as hard liquor con-
sumption and #10 for best overall aca-
demic experience for undergraduates.

In spite ofa three point drop in
overall ranking, (W&L ranked
eighth last year), the university
maintained its national reputation of
excellence. Director ofCommunica-
tions and Public Relations Brian D.
Shaw said that these surveys use a
“complex system ofevaluation. We
are only three points below last
years’ ranking. We’re more than
happy to be ranked #11.”

(1) Johns Hopkins spoils
football home opener

CD Big weekend for soccer,
volleyball

PAGE 4

 

 

“Well sonny, that ’s nuthin ’. . . I
walked 90 miles to class every day
when I was young! ”

“How young dackzy?

“Almost 21. ”

Well it’s time to feel like school children
once again. Not because we’re back in the
saddle of educational fun, but because we get
to walk to school like 6th graders.

“Hey y’all, wait up,” we get to yell every
moming as we see our off-campus ﬁiends at
every comer taking the same half-mile trek up-
hill to campus. Too bad for us, we can’t take
the bus or have our moms bring us because
school buses don’t exist forus and Banerwould
probably tow our moms’ cars away if they tried

It’s ﬁne now, but just wait until winter when
we get to leave our sport utility Vehicles be-
hind and strap on the old snow shoes. Can’t

wait

Seriously though, the new parking rules are
ridiculous. How hard is it to make a parking
lot? Is a tlnee month summer not enough to
lay some stones? Things might be done a bit
more slowly in the South than other places,
but get real. Let’s put the pedal to the metal
before lot rage begins.

It is not our problem thatthere are not enough
spots in which to park. Administrators may say
we lost that right by moving off campus. Nice
scapegoat. Where else are we going to live?
It’s not as if there is ample dorm space.

Yeah, we’re probably lazy. Spoiled brats,
perhaps, but you can’t let us regress in parking

 lotmatulityii fVi~taiie<li;f9jfit11<l>S¢i°l0S6.'—l.<'3l~°é
and now we’ve   out to  we
were as freshmen. I
Onlytwo goodthingscanbe said aboutthis
situation. First, we’ll really be able to tell those
cliched exaggerations ofwalking-to-school hell
to our children someday. Second, we might
‘ get tighter buns from the eternal up-hill climb.

Have an opinion?
Let us know.

e—mail us at phi@wlu.edu or
Call at (540)462-4060

Ellie ﬁling-tum iﬁlri

Executive Editors Tarah Grant
Hollister Hovey
Copy Editor Sarah Meldrum
Meredith Mlynar
News Editors Polly Doig
John Stewart
w&Iife Editors Ginger Phillips
Erica Prosser
Opinion & Editorial Editor Stephen Pesce
spans Editors Frances Groberg

Brendan Harrington
Kevin McManemin
Mike Crittenden
Christie Phillips
Tom Wadlow
Stephanie Bianco

Last Word Editor
Photo Editor

Online Editor
Layout Assistant

Jill Jamieson
Jason Williams

Business Manager
Managing Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee ‘
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor and Business Manager, but
The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in
the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by
noon on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters, columns and “Talkback” do
not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial
Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wlu.edu/~phi

need some laughs

At 4 this morning after I played the last of the 32,000
Free Cell games available on my computer, I cruised the
web for a while and happened upon the Comedy Central

web site. My blood-
shot eyes brightened   .
as I read something  H15 
that truly struck my 3.  7
fancy: “What?! Your  Stephen Pesce 01
neighborhood

doesn’t get Comedy Central? Are you forced to entertain
yourself with ‘Baywatch Nights,’ endless games of com-
puter solitaire and the Ziggy comic strip in your daily
newspaper?”

After crying at the realization that my life is pathetic, I
seriously questioned why our local cable service deprives
a fun-loving college community of one of the most popu-

lar television stations among college-aged
viewers.

Before settling back down at

Washington and Lee, I visited a
friend at Duke University. This
friend had started classes already;
since I knew no one else, Comedy
Central proved a truly reliable friend
and gracious host. Ben Stein chal-
lenged and stimulated my sun-dried gray matter. Craig
Kilbom and the “Daily Show” team kept me current on
events around the world. And those wacky Europeans with
“Viva Variety” made me proud to be an American.

Watching television at
Duke proved extremely infor-
mative and entertaining.
W&L and the city of Lexing-
ton provide students with a
college experience in the
classroom, in the community
and in the social arena equal 
to few others. Why should stu-. .
dents not demand the same dedication to excellence out of

 

 

   

 

 

 

their cable television service?
Maybe if enough students voiced disappointment to the
local cable company about this terrible oversight in chan-
nel lineup, Comedy Central might ﬁnally reach a commu-
nity that suffers from its absence.
On a different note, Duke also gets CBC (Canadian
Broadcasting Com-
‘C pany). Though I do
not think that students
Are you forced to "should necessarily
entertain yourself with ' fight for this station,I
did discover that
. . . endless games of Sprintcanadaoffersa
computer solitaire? get $20 per month
long distance rate for
9’ calls anywhere in
Canada — what a
tasty treat that would be if offered in the U.S. (We would
not, however, welcome the satirized Evita-style commer-
cials starring Candice Bergen.) So maybe after calling
the cable company, a call to the
telephone company might satisfy
the activist in everyone.

=-4-‘,--*Spn‘tit

  
  
  
  
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
      
 
  

 
 

Woods Crk keeps
students in the dark

As I marveled at the freshman day move-in last Saturday, I
had to smile. This year, there were no stairs to climb, no
cinderblocks to struggle with, and no unfamiliar faces to meet.
No, this year I’m a sophomore, living on the entry ﬂoor of the
Woods Creek apartments. I have a common room, a kitchen to
cook in, and a sink in which to dump my dirty dishes.

But the beneﬁts of living in Woods Creek as a sophomore
girl may not be worth the risks. Being on the entry ﬂoor on the
front side, our balcony is easy to climb, thus providing entry to
anyone not posessing a university card. This is wonderful if for
some reason you simply forget your card. But what about all of
those crazy people this

 

    

verypaperreportedon last .,  '  My View
year? Peeping Toms,  C  ,
ﬂashers and all sorts of  mnoes Gfoberg 02

 

oﬂier hi gh-soc iety persons
tend to hang out in the paths leading from campus to the com-
plex. Just the other day, while walking on the gravel path from
behind the gym, I spotteda man crouched arnongslt the trees, as
if he were trying to hide. I<Ie:certainly didn’t participate in the
speaking tradition, and I didn’t stop to ask him why.

Part of the reason Woods Creek is prone to these types of
ﬁgures is the severe lack of sufficient lighting lining the paths.
This school is willing to spend enonnous amounts of money for
grand newientrances and blue banners with uplifting messages,
but not to effectively provide for the safety of its students.

The Woods Creek apanments are a wonderful place to live.
They are removed from campus, yet close enough to walk to
class in under 10 minutes. Once the sun goes down, however, it
becomes a place that isn’t too safe to walk to and from alone. So
all of you freshmen who are complaining just as I did last year
about the noise and the limited space of the donns, realize that
what you may give up in comfort you gain in safety.

 ask: What is worst pick—up line you’veheard?

Ii

ote of the week:
Why did Clinton pull out?

— Student wondering why Clinton did
not speak at Fall Convocation

J}
Media breaches

honor system

As a freshman, I have been hearing a great deal about
the importance of honor during my ﬁrst week here. Honor
is one of the most important virtues for human beings in a
civilized society. But while honor is so revered here on
campus, our national discourse as a whole is sorely lack-
ing,in. this vital quality. .

The collective na-
tional attention has
been focused on Presi-
dent C|inton’s affair
with Monica Lewinsky
for the past seven-and-a-half months. This issue raises se-
rious questions about the standing of honor in our soci-
ety. Perhaps the question should be asked: What is the
most egregious breach of honor — President Clinton’s
proclivities, or our incessant appetite for every grisly de-
tail?

There is absolutely no question as to whether or not
the actions of the President were dishonorable. He caused
great harm to his family, and he demonstrated severe lack
of judgment in engaging in this affair. The truly disgrace-
ful aspect of the situation is, however, the absolute fervor
that the news media have shown for disclosing every inti-
mate detail. Even though he is the President, he is a hu-

man being entitled
C C to the privacy nec-

 

Whatis the I‘I1OSt essary to heal
- wounds in his mar-
egreglous breefch of riage and his family.
h0I101""P1'eS1deI1t The media have not
C]int0n’S proclivities, granted him this ba-
. sic human right to
or our mcessant carry on a family
appetite for every life independent of

- - the public eye.
gnsly dew] The national dis-

 

course over the past
seven months has
been anything but honorable. In such a voyeuristic soci-
ety, the private lives of our public ﬁgures are subject to
total scrutiny from all angles. Even when our leaders make
mistakes, they still deserve the opportunity to make repa-
rations and amends.

So the ultimate question remains: Which is the greater
transgression — the deed itself, or the way society re-
ceived the deed? One only needs to watch the news or
read any newspaper, and the answer reveals itself. Per-
haps before we judge the actions of our leader as a soci-
ety, we shouldjudge ourselves by the same standard.

   
   

 
  
  
 
  
 
  

   
  
  
 

  

 

   
 
  
  

 
   
 

  
 
 

  
 

   
 

 

   

 

 
  
  
  

  
 
 

  
  

 
  
  
 
  

   
 
  
   
  
 
 

  

 

 

 

   

    

A;

“I lost my phone number. Can I have yours?”

—Christa Hemmings ’02

f
“Do you have any Italian in you?”
“No.”
“D_o.you want some?”

JAMES G. Lgygum,  —Summers Kimbrough. ’02

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

ILEXWGTON. VA 24450

SEP 151998

“Hello, my name is Neil. You’ll
remember it: it’s a verb.”

—Deidra MacLeod ’02

 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
        

  
 
 
  
 

 
 

I

    
 

v

SEPTEMBER 14, 1998

W&life  

Lexington, VA: getting from poin

PAGE 3

o point B

 

  

To RT M, 1-94,
J:-$\, wu.-MAKV.
Au»:-r snuws, MMLE

HALL, $owL\v~IG,

DRNF.-lN, Lee-at

ﬂﬁkl KY

MAP 0 F
€.Xi1(tGToI\I,

V\RGlN\A

MAP ART BY
Ew.\c.A P505557‘

   

Oi
@
© . "°@¢gl$or1 ©

KANDO L"!

69

To NATURAL. emcee,
jugs) ROAl\lOIge)

J, RT\\

( Esrn.
GD
'@

A
j:— I

To  )
l-lARRlS TEEFER
(cap MON,
l"\c.D°"'A'-D'5,
weNW’5,
sueways Taco

3514-: ETC. .

1

".fl 3

neous newcomers: Is this 'you‘i"frrst year’ in the
thriving metropolis of Lexington, Va.? Are you just a
tad confused about where everything is and how to get
to the important spots? Worry no more. Just use this
handy map and key to get yourself around Big Lex with
ease. Before long, you’ll be so comfortable with the
Jarea that people might mistake you for a townie.

A. Beta Theta Pi (Beta)

B. Lambda Chi Alpha (Lambda Chi)
C. Kappa Alpha (KA)

D. Kappa Sigma (Kappa Sig)
E. Pi Kappa Alpha (Pika)

F. Pi Kappa Phi (Pi Phi)

G. Sigma Alpha Epsilon (SAE)
H. Sigma Nu

I. Sigma Phi Epsilon (Sig Ep)

1. Sigma Chi

K. Phi Gamma Delta (Fiji)

L. Phi Delta Theta (Phi Delt)

- » »- ~Freshmen,Atransfer students‘-and other'inTscella- .3

.M. Phi‘Kappa Sigma (Phi Kap)
N. Phi Kappa Psi (Phi Psi),
0. Chi Psi

P. The Palms

Q. Spanky’s

R. Sheridan Livery lnn

S. Willson Walker House
T. ll Palazzo

U. Domino’s Pizza

V. Harb’s

W. Salemo’s

X. Southern lnn

Y. University Cleaners

Z. Troubador Theatre

1. State Theater

2. Pappagallo

3. Night Owl

4. Crossroads

5. Hallmark

6. Alvin-Dennis

7. University Sportswear

8. US._ Post Office

9. First Union Bank

10. Crestar Bank

1 1. Lexington Coﬂ°ee Roasting Co.

12. Sunday’s Child

13. Bradshaw’s Studio — l-hour Photo
14. Stonewall Jackson Cemetery

15. Munster

16. The Bestseller bookstore

If your destination is slightly off the map, check out
these directions. -

Directions to Goshen: Take Main Street toward Wal-
Mart®, but turn left on Route 39 (the stoplight right be-
fore Wal-Mart®). Stay on 39, and the popular Goshen
picnic spot along the river will eventually appear on the
right.
Directions to Zollman’s: Take Route 11 south to
Route 251 (Thomhill Road). Turn right on 251 and go
south, keeping on 251 past Union Run Road. Past the
country club and the Moose Lodge, turn leﬁ on Zollman’s

Nelson (Route 60) toward Harris Teeter and stay on
Nelson until it crosses Interstate 8]. Go south on 81 for
about an hour until the Roanoke exit appears (it is a left
exit onto Interstate 581). Follow the signs to the airport.

on I-581 to the second Hershberger Road exit and fol-

terstate 81 northeast for about I 10 miles until it inter-
sects Interstate 66. Take I-66 cast for about 73 miles
right into Washington, D.C. More maps for the D.C.
area can be found online at www.mindspring.com/
~chadallen/dc/layers/.

Mill Road and stay on  untilyou reachllollmanfs (look
for"all'the other ‘cars full offéllow'studer'its having fun).
Directions to Charlottesville: Take Interstate 64
cast for 63 miles until it crosses U.S. 29. Go east on US.
29 almost 3 miles until it crosses U.S. 250. Take U.S. 250
cast for a mile straight into Charlottesville.
Directions to the Roanoke Airport and Mall: Take

For those interested in visiting Valley View Mall, stay

low the signs.
General directions to Washington, D.C.: Take in-

—compiled from staﬁ" research

C€aEa%,.arm@alfmaa,.

September 9 Fall Convocation
“Come Cheer: W&L at
250 Years” photo exhibit,
duPont Gallery
October 1-3 Homecoming Weekend
October 3 Lee Chapel Rededication
October 10 Law School 150"‘ Gala

°it513e4'i)
Oc "  .

  
 

on &

lobby
N =' .  IC

n erence
November 10 Order of the Coif Lecture
November 14 Bicenquinquagenary Ball
January 19 Founder’s Day
February 11 250"‘ Postal Ca rd
Ceremony
February 13 Jack Warner ’40 exhibit,
Lenfest lobby

March 3 Fancy Dress Ball
April 29 Alumni Reunion Weekend

—compiled from staﬂ reports

‘iguana

 The niversityatiswo Years", . /
Num us'individuals;‘all of whom, were committedt

ts t, iconceivedjtheidea for this boo A , _ g
“This 250"‘ Observance is surely atime to look  yd
, . K »\ ,  ..  ,‘ fr ‘ V g * it ‘A } 7 /

Moot”: . Coirieicheerfcir W i ‘

piece of W&L’s  to thoseiwh will etermme,

Didyou know?

(D Wilson Field was once used as a military train-
ing site for students during World War I.

(D The original Tucker Hall was a stone structure
that looked much different from the other brick build-
ings along the Colonnade. Tucker Hall, which was once
home toithe Law School, burned in December of I934.
The new Tucker Hall was built in 1936 as a companion
to Newcomb Hall. A

<1) W&L has attracted such celebrities as Presi-
dent Jimmy Carter, Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich,
author William Faulkner, actress Elizabeth Taylor and
musician Winton Marsalis to the campus.

(I) Scenes from the I992 ﬁlm “Sommersby,” star-
ring Richard Gere and Jodie Foster, were ﬁlmed in Lex-
ington. Cast members had dressing rooms located in
Red Square fraternity houses. ‘

(I) University librarian Annie Jo White hosted
the first ofﬁcial Fancy Dress Ball in 1907. The event has
since become known as the collegiate social event of
the South.

(D From I931 until 1969, freshmen were ﬁrst sent
to Freshmen Camp in Natural Bridge before moving onto
campus.

<l> Soldiers used Phi Kappa Sigma and other fra-
ternity houses in Red Square were used as military bar-
racks during WWI.

(D Newcomb Hall once lacked the University's
trademark white columns, and the C-School formerly
maintained a large dome when it was known as the
Carnegie Library.

—compiled from staff reports

 

 

Generals lose 14th straig

Johns Hopkins
scores 29
points in
second quarter
offensive

explosion

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON »
SPORTS FDITOR

The Washington and Lee foot-
ball squad kicked off their 1998 cam-
paign exactly like they started their
past 13 - with a loss. Saturday af-
ternoon marked the 14th consecu-
tive year that the Generals dropped
the season opener, as Johns
Hopkins scored 29 second quarter
points en route to an impressive 43-
23 win Saturday aftemoon at Wil-
son Field. The Blue Jays also beat
the Generals on opening day of last
season, 34-28 in Baltimore.

The Generals knew they would
have to stop the run to be success-
ful against the Blue Jays, but they
just could not contain the Hopkins
running attack. The Blue Jays
rushed for 192 yards on 43 carries,
an average of 4.5 yards per carry.

Six different Hopkins players
rushed for 20 or more yards, led by
Donald Davis. The Blue Jays’ pass-
ing attack also succeeded as quar-

 

- terbacks Wayne Roccia and Jamie

Monica were a combined 19-26 for

I 262 yards, two touchdowns, and no
L interceptions.

“I think the team had a great ef-

I fort, but we just had some break-
 downs,” defensive lineman Ben
I Middendorf commented following
 the game. “I think we can correct
_ those mistakes and come back to
I have a good season.”

Turnovers were the downfall of

 the W&L offense, as the Generals
I committed three turnovers in the
1 ﬁrst half, including two crucial in-

Chase becomes all-time  
scorer for men’s soccer

Record-
breaking day
helps Generals

; to 1-0 start in
, season opener

 BY FRANcEs GROBERG

Spoms EDITOR

The season could not have

 started off better for the men’s soc-
. cer team. On Saturday, senior Sam

.....-.,..,-v.... ..,...«....~. »- - .-.   . .
. .'.'. . . Y‘. .'. J. . .. F ‘.'.V. -.'H:'-'‘ 9‘. ,->- 1,4,4 ._»_,:‘. .,-,,-‘-_.v..a..~,-,-t_.-x. ..,,-.-.. . . r\ s s s . rs 5;. 9'. . .r_.

 

 

Chase became the program’s all-
time leading scorer, and the Gener-
als posted a4-l victory over Catho-
lic University.

‘‘It was a really good start for
us,” senior co-captain and 1996
All-American Mikel Parker said.
“We were also so excited for Sam.
It was a great day.”

Last year, Chase broke the record
for most career points in the men’s
soccer program with 90.

Chase’s goal gave the team an
early 1-0 lead. Chase also added a
second half goal, bringing his all-
time total to 42.

‘‘I should have done it last year,
but it was really cool to have been
able to do it with my parents on the
sidelines,” Chase said.

Junior midﬁelder Jamie Parker
' and freshman defender Rick
Schnatz added second half goals.
This year’s squad has high
hopes. The Generals are anchored
by 17 returning players, including
1 l starters, as well as nine promis-
. ing freshmen.
The defense will be led by se-

ée

 

 

sports

htopener

SEPTEMBER 14, 1998

  
   

A JOHN HOPKINS PLAYER tackles sophomore running back Marc Watson, causing him to ﬁxmble the ball. The Generals
turned the ball over three times in the ﬁrst half of the 43-23 loss to the Blue Jays. H()l.Ll.S'IL'R /‘I()VI;‘Y/EXl:‘(.'l/'I7Vl:‘ EDITOR

terceptions by junior quarterback
Christian Batcheller. Other than the
two interceptions, Batcheller had a
solid performance as he went 19-28
for 230 yards and two touchdowns.

“There were a few bad reads on
my part,” Batcheller admitted. “Other
than that we moved the ball pretty
well. A few bad mental decisions were
basically the difference in the game.”

Junior wide receiver J .T. Malatesta
was one of the few bright sports for
the Generals as he caught eight
passes for 124 yards and made a diffi-
cult diving touchdown catch in the
fourth quarter.

The Generals led 3-0 after the
first quarter, butjust seven seconds
into the second quarter Roccia
threw a six yard touchdown pass to

nior co-captain and 1996 All-American
Mikel Parker. Sophomore Yacek
Mucha returns to team with Parker on
a defense that allowed only 1.34 goals
per game last season.

The big key to this team, as is to
any soccer team, will be the goalkeeper.
Senior co-captain E.J. Murphy will rep-
resent the Generals in that role for the
second consecutive season.

Last year, Murphy saved 100 of 123

stellar 1.41 goals

Justin Bellochio to give the Blue
Jays a 6-3 lead. Immediately follow-
ing the kickoff, Craig Reinert inter-
cepted an underthrown pass from
Christian Batcheller and ran it all the
way back to the one yard line.

Sophomore running back Scott
Martorana punched it in a play later
to give the Blue Jays their second
touchdown in the first 37 seconds
ofthe quarter.

Hopkins struck again with 5:35
left in the second quarter when
Roccia connected with wide re-
ceiver Sam Skinner for a 40-yard
touchdown pass to give Johns
Hopkins a commanding 21-3 lead.

Senior wide out Chas Chastain
scampered 30 yards for a touch-
down offa reverse with 2:58 left in

this year, which will really help late in
the season.”

Competition will not only be
fierce on the field, but between
players for starting positions.

Other top returnees to the team
include Sophomore Jon Wilson,
who started all 17 games last sea-
son, and also figures to be a key
in the offensive attack.

Wilson moves to the forward

position after
playing midfield

shots and had a
C C

against average.
He also became
the first General
since 1992 to start

We ’ve got great depth this year;
which will really help late in

last seasoh. Jun-
ior Ben Thomp-
son is expected
to start along-

every game in theseason side Parker in

goal duringafull Mk [P k the midﬁeld.

season. '— le 07' 37 The team’s
Murphy will  season contin-

be backed up by
sophomore Jor-
dan Ginsberg and newcomer sopho-
more Evan Crainer.

“lt’s the best team I’ve played on
yet,” Chase said.

Mikel Parker agreed, saying “It
looks like Coach Piranian got a great
recruiting class. We’ve got great depth

ues on Saturday
at noon, when
they will take on rival Virginia
Wesleyan at the Liberty Hall
Fields. The game promises to‘ be
a tough one, as the Generals try
to avenge their semifinal loss in
last year’s ODAC tournament
against the Marlins.

JUNIOR MICHAEL KACZKAﬁghts oﬂ a defender in the Generals’4-1
victory over Catholic University. HOLLISTER HOVERY/EXECUTIVE EDITOR

the first half, but Hopkins drove 80
yards and took a 29-10 lead into the
locker room following a Davis three-
yard run and successful two point
conversion.

The Blue Jays continued to run
the ball well in the second half as
Donald Davis added two more
touchdowns. Batcheller threw two
touchdown passes in the fourth
quarter, a 20 yarder to Malatesta and
a seven yarder to sophomore
Hanley Sayers, but it was too little
too late.

“You hate to write it offto being
the first game ofthe season because
obviously you want to win your first
game,” Batcheller said. “ But we just
have to come out next week and do
better.”

' ith

   

7,

I Bout ‘any m.ai'6r~‘1n’utiés= Ia’ l<1;th‘i¢

 /-liteairn  about wheregIjw.oul‘d ex,

 

37

     

"’T!1.¢»l<3°ﬁ¢ralslj1avé ‘léftdhse

‘ :"P1°. this yela = ¥4a§t éaS‘i9’n§3h9

Volleyball digs

- » ilillau-I

up

first win

athome tournament

   

Youth,

1 experience
‘ the perfect
combination in
W&L invitational
tournament I

 STm Warm

The 1998 Generals volleyball team
started the season off with an impres-
sive win in this year’s Washington and
Lee Invitational Volleyball Touma-
ment. On Friday, the Generals
trounced Southern Virginia 3-0, but
dropped a tough match to Sewanee 2-
3. On Saturday, W&L dropped only
two games the entire day in wins over
Catholic (3-2), and two over North
Carolina Wesleyan (3-0, 3-0).

Assistant coach Ana Litton attrib-
uted this weekend’s success to “a good
mix of experienced retumers and a good
talented group of freshmen.”

Digs from senior co-captain Megan
Snodgrass, setting from senior co-cap-
tain Lee Ann Gschwind, and smart hit-
ting from junior power hitter Nancy
Reinhart completed the pass-set-hit
combo.

Reinhart heads the returnees and

brings with her the banner of being
named the ODAC Player of the Year
last year. The ﬁery competitor set a
school record with 381 kills last sea-
sons and also led the team with 327
digs. Reinhart has been a starter her
.ﬁrst two seasons and is an explosive
hitter despite standing just 5-foot-6.
Sophomore Tori Hayes came off of
the bench on Saturday and provided
a much needed spark for W&L after
their Friday night loss to Sewanee.
Gschwind was impressed with the
weekend’s efforts, but was still re-
served about making any predictions

(6

We proved a lot by pulling
through some tough games,
but we still have a lot of work
to do.
-- Lee Ann Gschwind

77

about this year’s success. “We proved
a lot by pulling through some tough
games, but we still have a lot of work
to do. The potential is definitely
there.” .

This season, the Generals face the
hard task of replacing last year’s tal-

ented senior class. Over the last\
four seasons W&L has compiled a
record of 96-27, capturing Old Do-
minion Athletic Conferencc cham-
pionships in 1995 and 1997, while
achieving the program's first re-
gional ranking in 1996. However,
the Generals have lost career kill
leader Hilary Martin, career assist
leader Alison Beard and career
serve leader Holly Thomsen.

Several of the ever-changing
starting positions this weekend be-
longed to freshmen that have
brought talent and height to the
team this year.

“The majority ofthe freshman
are 5’ll" or taller,” said Erin
Gwara, freshman middle blocker
from Farmington, NY.

Solid team play wrapped up the
win on Saturday for the Gen’erals.
This experience for the freshmen
coupled with the experience of be-
ing the defending ODAC champi-
ons promises to lead to a winning
season for W&L volleyball in 1998.

W&L faces Guilford on Tues-
day Night at 6:30 p.m. in the
Warner Center. Between the sec-
ond and third games the team will
hold a serving contest for the
fans. Prizes from Lexington area
merchants will be given away to
the winners.

 

  
 
 
 

 

 

  

: . Volleyball  ,i..i¥.:,«§otij?ll.y ”
W&L:  3  items =
-«-$°~.Virsieia j 0. I I opkins -
lW&Lw   ivii-;ips1’s2.c¢er
Sewanee 93  . ~

3 V. f;w&L I _ 4
was  13 F — i:°““*:"'.‘°i. I 
-C-‘”h.°el‘.° f 1:   ;Women’S Solccer
‘W&L  93V. A if-with 5
 Wesleyan 0  ,0 »

  
 

  

Fmisuunz      

 

n&nS1u.~x.n.-u.s;.r“-ssh:-.9. .a.__.........__...'

gc

Y4

 

©1993 TIAA-CREE Til] Tbirrl Aumiir, New York, NY

SEPTEMBER 14, 1998

RESPONSIBILITY LECTURE SERIES STARTS

University of Chicago Professor Ralph Lerner will inaugurate a lecture se-
ries on civil responsibility with his talk “The American Founders and Respon-
sibility” on Thursday. The responsibility lecture series is the academic center-
piece of the 250"‘ celebration and a total of 15 distinguished speakers from
varying disciplines will come to campus during the school year to take part in
the forum.

Princeton University Professor Amy Gutmann will give a talk titled “Re-
ligious Liberty and Civil Responsibility” next Thursday. All ofthe respon-
sibility lectures will take place in the Science Center Addition, Room A214
at 7:30 p.m.

WRITE FOR THE RING-TUM PHI

The Ring-tum Phi invites freshmen and other students interested in work-
ing on the newspaper to attend our weekly meetings 7:30 p.m. Tuesday nights.
You can control the time commitment: Write one article a month to have writing
samples for job interviews or talk to one of our editors about an assistant
editor position and spend every weekend in the ofﬁce.

FILM SOCIETY SEASON OPENS WITH A STORM

The ﬁlm society will open its 1998-99 season this weekend with “The Ice
Storm” (USA, 1997). Directed by Ang Lee, “The Ice Storm” takes place as an
early winter storm descends on Connecticut. In a wooded suburb, afﬂuent
adults and teenagers stir restlessly in their homes, depressed not only by their
lives, but by their entertainments.

Film society screenings are at 7:30 p.m. on Friday and Saturday inthe Trou-
badour Cinema. There is no charge for admission.

FACULTY PERFORM IN LENFEST

The department of music will present a faculty recital, “From Germany to
A-itnerica,” 8 p.m. Saturday in the Lenfest Center. The performance is free and
open to the public. A

Pianist Timothy Gaylard, professor of music, will perform Beethoven’s So-
nata in C-sharp minor, Op. 27, No. 2, a Waltz on Yankee Doodle and two
excerpts from Aaron Copeland’s Rodeo. Tenor Scott Williamson, director of
the University Chorus, will sing Pierrot ’s Dance Song by Komgold, three
songs by Kurt Weill, two songs from Des Knaben W underhorn by Mahler and
two song cycles, Bestiary of Dreams by Convery and A Winter Comes by
Morten Laiiridsen.

NEW TREES TAKE ROOT ON FRONT CAMPUS

Over the summer, W&L replaced approximately 25 trees on the
front campus and in front of the faculty housing area. A consultant
said that the old trees were diseased, damaged and dangerous.

DINING SERVICES WINS NATIONAL AWARD
W&L’s Dining Services department was recently honored by the National

Association of College & University liood Services. W&L placed second in a 1

national dontest in the category of “Residence Hall Dining Special Event Theme
Dinner” for its “Nutcracker” theme holiday dinner last December. The award
marked the fourth time since 1991 and the second year in a row that W&L has
been honored by NACUFS.

GAIN ADVERTISING EXPERIENCE

Students interested in advertising or public relations careers are needed to
join The Ring-tum Phi advertising team. If you are interested, e-mail
phi@wlu.edu. It will look great on your resume.

MOYERS SPEAKS ON DRUGS, ALCOHOL

William Cope Moyers, director of public policy for the ,

Hazelden Foundation, will be speaking about drug and alcohol addiction,
treatment and education 7:30 p.m. in Room 327 in the C-School.

The title of his lecture is “The Great Awakening,” an overview and analysis
of the last 200 years of U.S. public policyand drug addiction. Moyers, who
graduated from W&L in 1981, has appeared on “Larry King Live,” “The Oprah
Winfrey Show” and “The Today Show.” His work has also been featured in The
New York Times and Newsweek.

LENFEST TICKETS GO ON SALE

Tickets for Opera Roanoke’s “La Boheme, " Kiev Camerata and “Rosencrantz
and Guildenstem are Dead” go on sale today. Call the Lenfest Box Ofﬁce for
ﬁ.lI‘thet' infonnation at 463-8000.

THEATER DEPARTMENT HOLDS AUDITIONS

The theater department is pleased to announce open auditions for its up-
coming play “Rosencrantz and Guildenstem are Dead” by Tom Stoppard and
directed by Al Gordon. Auditions will be held Thursday and
Friday at 4 p.m. and 7:30 p.m. in the Lenfest Center’s'
Johnson Theatre.

Auditioners should prepare a reading of any 10-line
speech from Hamlet. Scripts are available from the the-
ater department secretary. Fifteen roles are available.

Rehearsals will run Sept. 21 to Oct. 22. Perfonnance
dates are Oct. 23 through Oct. 26.

NOMINATE SENIORS FOR WHO'S WHO

Anyone who wishes to nominate a member of the current undergraduate
senior class for selection to “Who’s Who Among Students in American Uni-
versities and Colleges” may do so by submitting the name and qualiﬁcations of
that student to Dean David Howison in Payne Hall 9 by October 1, 1998.

Criteria for selection to “Who’s Who” include scholarship, participation
and leadership in academic and extracurricular activities, citizenship and ser-
vice to W&L and potential for future achievement.

WINTER SPEAKS IN LEE CHAPEL

William Winter, J .D., former governor of Mississippi and a member of the
United States Committee on Race Relations, will speak in Lee Chapel 8 p.m.
Tuesday. His lecture is sponsored by PRIDE, Programming for the Respect of

' Individuals in Diversity in Education.

LEARN TO SWING FOR THE 250"‘ BALL

Students can sign up for beginner level swing classes at the Lexington
School of Dance to prepare for the 250"‘ ball. For more information, call 463-4466
or463-7662.

ATTEND STUDY ABROAD FAIR

The Study Abroad Fair willbe held 1 1 a.m. to 4 p.m.
Wednesday on Stemmons Plaza. Representatives from
more than 20 different programs will explain opportu-
nities for academic year,‘ term or summer study. Faculty
are enco aged to attend to learn about opportunities for
their stu ents and advisees as well.

—e-mail General Notes to phi@wlu.edu

  Top P
7 C x . count.
8 I j*(:i§EF otvtaliiliccount‘

_.s&P‘atzd  its
rating for TlAA**

MORNINGSTAR,

“...AJneﬁ¢a§ ‘
ensioit Fund.”

“Money Magazine. January 1998

—~—- illiam Ravdiri,TlAA-CREE Participant

HIGH MARKS FROM ,
8&1’, MOODY’S,
MONEY MAGAZINE AND BILL.

coming
soon".

Get ready for the Phi
classiﬁeds

- Be a U.S. citizen

Teach English in junior and senior high schools in Japan
Learn about Japanese culture and people
Gain international experience 

~ Have an excellent command of the English language
- Obtain a bachelor's degree by June 30, 1999

- Be willing to relocate to Japan for one year

A JET Program Representative will he at Washington & Lee University on Wednesday,
September 16 lot a Study Abroad Fair lrom 11:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. outdoors. Contact
the Ollice of International Education or call the JET ollice at (212) 238-6772.

PARENTS JAILED FOR CAGING DAUGHTER

Parents convicted of locking their 7-year-old daughter in" a dog cage
stained with urine and feces were sentenced to a year in jail by a judge in
Wisconsin who said they deserved compassion despite their despicable
conduct. Court-appointed psychiatrist Darold Treffert said the girl was
“a very difﬁcult child.” -

THREE TO BE FIRED FOR RACIST FLOAT

Two ﬁreﬁghters and a policeman will be ﬁred for participating in a
New York City Labor Day Parade ﬂoat that mocked the dragging death of
a black man in Texas, city ofﬁcials said. The “Black to the Future” float
featured nine. white men, wearing black make-up and dreadlock wigs,
who threw waterrnelons and fried chicken and carried boom boxes.

MARS’ MOON HAS HIP-DEEP DUST

Phobos, the larger of Mars’ two small moons, is covered in 3-feet-
deep dust fortned by meteoroid impacts over millions of years, according
to images captured by the orbiting Mars Global Surveyor. The images
were released Friday by NASA.

JAPANESE-AMERICAN COMPENSATION ENDS

The Justice Department has ended its 10-year effort to ﬁnd and com-
pensate Japanese-Americans forced by the United States into internment
camps during World War II. More than 81,000 Japanese-Americans re- -
ceived payments——an estimated 98 percent of those eligible under the
1988 law that set up the $1.6 billion reparations program

DRUG APPEARS TO FIGHT DEPRESSION

Scientists may have stumbled onto an entirely new way to treat de-
pression: Merck & Co.’s new drug, the subject of an account published
Friday in the journal Science, works on a chemical pathway that differs
from every antidepressant sold today and offers hope to patients who get
no help from standard therapies.

AUTHORS BACK AFFIRMATIVE‘ ACTION

Racial preferences at elite colleges and universities have opened the
door to success for black Americans, according to a new book by two
former presidents of Ivy League institutions. The book from the Princeton
University Press is being released in the midst of challenges to affirmative
action in higher education.

—compiled from AP

 Do you feel old? The majority of this year's
t I . I freshmen class was born in the 1980s.
0 (D They have no meaningful recollection of the

Reagan era and did not know he had ever been shot.
(D They were 1 1 when the Soviet Union broke apart
‘ and do not remember the Cold War. CCCP is just a '
 _. bunch of letters.

(D They are too young to remember the Challenger
explosion.

(D Their lifetime has always included AIDS.

(D Atari pre-dates them, as do vinyl albums. The
expression "you sound like a broken record" means
nothing to them.

CD They do not know who Mork was or where he
was from.

(I) They never heard the temis “I'd Walk a mile for
Camel,” “Where's the beef?” or “de plane, de plane!”
(D Michael Jackson has always been white.

send thought-provoking comments to phi@wlu.edu

/

WANT TO MAKE SURE
BANER DOESN'T TOW
YOU AGAIN?

Raffle tickets for President Elrod’s
parking space* will be on sale from
Tuesday until Friday at the Co-op.
Proceeds beneﬁt W&L Habitat for

Humanity.
’ M-F 8-5; ﬁrst half of fall term

V N d e talce a lot of pride in gaining high marlcs
from the major rating services. But the fact
is, we're equally proud of the ratings we get every
day from our participants. Because at TIAA-CREF,
ensuring the financial futures of the education and
research community is something that goes beyond So does Bill.
stars and numbers.
We became the world's largest retirement orga-

nizationl by offering people a wide range of sound

investments, a commitment to superior service, and

B Ensuring the future
for those who shape it?‘

four stars. M()lI|Ing.iI3f proprietary mung; ct historical risk-cidjustcd pcrﬁir
CXCC.“ tif9U-day Trcasiirybill returns with zppropnatc I'cc " . ..:iid a ti.
ratings, which an: Wclghlcd Averages ofits thrcc-, tivc-. and [C|\'\‘L'Jr rating for pc-n't>d.« ctidiiIgl||l)' 31.

operating expenses that are among the lowest in the
insurance and mutual fund industries.""

\Vith TIAA-CREF, you'll get the right ohoices—
and the dedication ——to help you achieve a lifetime
of financial goals. The leading experts agree.

Find out how TIAA-CREF can helpyou build a
comfortable, financially secure tomorrow.

Visit our Web site at www.tiaa-cref.org or call
us at 1800 842-2776.

‘ Source: Momingstar, Inc_, July 3], I998. Momingstar is In indcpciidcnt service [It]! t.\tc.\ tnutlul funds ind variilslc innuitics '1 lie mp 10% (1lIlIll(I\lll.1ll lllV’t“IlT1L§|I(k'.lIL';',(l|'\’NLCIVC live .\I.1r.\ .ind the next 22.5% rL'L'<lVL'

rcllc cc and are .\Itl3jt:CK to change L’\CT\'lllUllll1.TllE\ .irc c.i|ciil.itcd trout the .iccniint'.\ th
factor that rcllccn pCl'Il)lI'll.1I|LL' lvclou 9l)’(lJy T-hill l'L'[lIl’Il\. ‘I lit: overall star titiiigs r
I998 I lie scpntatc ttiiipiililislit I) tntuigx tor C.|L'll iiftlic pctiodx .irc:

GETA $40

.z|lltl tun-yc-.ir .wcragc annual returns in
clcrrcd to nhovc .iti: Mornnigxtar‘s published

just to name a few.

CHEF Stock Account
Star Rating/
Numbct urnomcmc Equity
Accounts Rated
4/2,120
4/1 ,363
4/(>74

CIR!’ Global Equities Kncount
Sur IL-iting/
Numhcr oflntcmationil I-Zqiiity
Accounts Rated
4/459
5/235
N/A

our Bq-ulty lmla Antoni-it
Stat R.Iting/
Nuinbct ()fl3()1l1l.'\IlL' I-Equity
Accuuntx Kttcd
S/2,121)

CHEF Growth Account
St.ir R.itiiig/
Nuinbcr t)fl)UIIlL'\ll( i:qi.u_\
Arrtiiiiitx Ratcd
5/2,120
.\',/.\

N/:\

Period
3-Year
5-Yuar
ll)-Ycnr

.\‘/A
.\'/A

CREE‘ Bond Market Account
Sm I(.iting/
Niiiiibcr oi’ l:|KL‘kl'lll(IlI1IL’
AC\'nllllI.\ Rm-d
4/719
4/487
N/A

CHEF Sodnl Choice Account
Star R.iting/
Niiiubcr of Domestic Equity
Accounts Katcd
4/2,120‘

4/1,363
N/A

\ you ll“/CSI or scnd money

"These mp ratings are {used on 'l‘lAA‘si.-xccptional ﬁnancial sltcitgtli, claims-paying ability and in-cmll upcrallng pt-rfumuiicc 'B:v;tl on :mct.\ under lllulldgcllicltl. "'Stmidnrri’ -31’:-yr’: Inmranrr Rﬂflilﬂ Arii:l_v.u‘:,
I998; Lippcr Analytical Services, lrIc., Lipprr-I)i'r:tIor’r Armlyriml Data, 1998 (Qiiancrlyl. (IREF certiﬁcates and llllk‘K‘\!S Ill IlIt.' TIAA RL'.Il Iistatc Acctiuiit arc dl.\|’l'll9|JICd by TIAA-(ZRI—lI-' lIidi\'idu.\| and
lnstitutitmal Scrviccs. For more ctimplctcint1>rnntion,incliiding charges and cxpcny:.\, call H100 842-2733, L-xtcnxitiit 550‘), for the CREIE and 'l‘l.»\A Real F.xt.itc Acmiiiit priispcctiism. Rudd ll1L'Il| c.'itcI'ii|l_v bcfurc

it/9»

THE ARMY CAN HELP YOU
' ooo soc:
on coI.i.eae.

The Army can help you get an edge on life and earn up to
$40,000 for college through the Montgomery GI Bill plus the Army

1 : ~ better every day. If you
qualify, you could train in one of over 200 challenging and reward-
ing high-tech skills in ﬁelds like avionics and electronics, satellites
and microwave communications, computer and radar operations-

It makes sense to earn while you learn. For more information
about getting money for college, call your Army Recruiter today.

Call: 540-886-2651
ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE?

WWW. Q08 rmy.com

‘V.
“iii"a7'§r3""

SAVE $6.00

at

College Fund.

Here’s how it works. Enlist
for four years. You then con-
tribute $100 a month for the
ﬁrst year from your $11,100
ﬁrst year salary. The Army
then contributes the remain-
der. Enlist for three years and

'1’ you earn $33,000 or enlist for
1 two years and earn $26,500.
Army opportunities get

WILLIAMSBUIW. VA
-Iuldi Then: Puts.

Present this coupon when purdiasing your tidtet at
any Busch Gardens Wlliaiiisbtirg or Water Country
IISA general admission window to receive your
discount on the regular one day admission price.
Children two and under are free. Admission price
indudes all regularly sdieduled slim and
attractions. This coupon has no cash value and
annc: be used in conjunction with any other
discount Prices and sdiedules are subject to diange
without notice. Busdi Gardens Vﬁlliatnsbuig and
Water Country USA have a "no solicitation” policy.
limit six tidtet: pet coupon. Olier expires
Ilmniber I, I998 at Busdi Gardens Williamsburg
and September 20, I999 at Water Country USA‘
PLU #2206I7.207

For General Park Information,
Group Rates (I5 or more)
And Catering information

call 757-253-3350

 

PAGE 6

abitoi Humor, Opinion and Reviews

PHOTO ILLUSTRATION BY JASON WILLIAMS/MANAGING EDITOR

Independent Counsel report sez
Prez has really blown ii

BY KENNEIH STARR

BrrINDEPrNDi-NT CCJUNSH.

The following quotes are all excerpted directly from

Kenneth Starr 's Independent Counsel Report, as taken

from http://CNN.com/starr. report. Comments are from
The Looney Bin.

The President suggested that she bring him some
slices of pizza.
From that moment on it was true love.

During many of their sexual encounters, the Presi-
dent stood leaning against the doorway of the bath-
room across from the study which, he told Ms.
Lewinsky, eased his sore back.

I guess it wasn ’t an illicit sexual aﬂair. . . she
was just administering therapeutic massage.

She testified: “I never expected to fall in love with
the President. I was surprised that I did.”
Hey, what girl hasn’t had a crush on a big
tubby redneck twice her age?

“I was always giving him my stupid ideas about what
I thought should be done in the administration or dif-
ferent views on things.”
Wait a minute. . . was this Monica Lewinsky ’s
testimony or Hillary ’s?

After phone sex late one night, the President fell
asleep mid—conversation.
The President fell asleep in the middle of
phone sex? Did we elect Bill Clinton or Bob Dole?

“The President said that . . . he spent more time with
me than anyone else in the world, aside from his family,
friends and staf .”

Who does that leave? Really.

If Ms. Lewinsky performed oral sex on the President,
then —- under this interpretation — she engaged in
sexual relations but he did not.

Sounds logical to me.

In the windowless hallway adjacent to the study, they
kissed. Before returning to her desk, Ms. Lewinsky wrote
down her name and telephone number for the President.

What, the most powerful man in the world
can ’t use the Yellow Pages?

While the President continued talking on the phone
(Ms. Lewinsky understood the caller was a member of
Congress or a Senator), she performed oral sex on him.

Having oral sex while talking on the phone!
How rude! ( Unless he was calling Ted Kenneafv) . . .

“And then I think he made a joke . . . thathe hadn’t
had that in a long time.”
And now that Hillary ’s read this report he 71
never have that again.

She performed oral sex. Once again, he stopped her
before ejaculation because, Ms. Lewinsky testiﬁed, “he
didn’t know me well enough or he didn’t trust e yet.”

So he knew her well enough to put his pri—
vates in her mouth but not to let her finish the job?
There 's Arkansas logic for you.

“I asked him why he doesn’t ask me any questions
about myself and . . . is this just about sex . . . or do you
have some interest in trying to get to know me as a
person?” The President laughed . . .

That is pretty funny.

He also indicated that she could have any job she
wanted after the election.
Ambassador Lewinsky?
Lewinsky’?

Vice President

last Word

 

SEPTEMBER 14, 1998

MAN OH MAN. AM I EVER
PSYCHED ABOUT THIS
RESPONSIBILITY SYMPOSIUM

BYKEVINMCMAMMN

RAVING AND DRoouNo

ike most people on this campus, I had only one
thing in mind when I returned to Lexington last

week: when will the Responsibility Symposium’

begin’? All summer long I could barely contain my excite-
ment. When I arrived in Lexington it was all my friends
and I talked about.

We were all thrilled when we heard that, for the 250*‘
anniversary, W&L would sponsor a series of lectures on
religion, law and responsibility. What a great idea! I think
I speak for all college students everywhere when I say that
responsibility is a topic we find fascinating.

Young people have always been deeply concerned with
being responsible, and my friends and I are no exception.
We often sit around the frat house and discuss responsi-
bility and how it relates to various academic disciplines.
Are we being responsible? What is responsibilty? How
do Iudeo-Christian ethics inﬂuence conceptions of
responsibilty in modern American politics? These are all
questions we discuss regularly, and now we’ll get to hear
a bunch of professors from other colleges talk about them!
What could be better?

You know, the other day the social chair of my fraternity
suggested that we throw a party on Tuesday the 24"‘. “Next
Tuesday night!” I cried, “the same night that Amy Gutmarm,
the Laurence S. Rockefeller Professor at Princeton Univer-
sity and co-author of the book “Color Conscious: The P0-
litical Morality of Race” (winner of the American Political
Science Association’s Ralph J. Bunche award for the best
scholarly work in political science which explores the phe-
nomenon of ethnic and cultural pluralism) is delivering her
lecture ‘Religious Liberty and Civil Responsibility’ for the
Responsibility Symposium!”

All of my brothers burst into laughter and the social

chair felt pretty stupid. Imagine, throwing a party when
the entire student body will be packed into Room A214
of the Science Addition! Ha! .

Seriously, though, I just hope I’ll be able to find a
seat. I mean I know how intellectually curious every-
one on this campus is and I remember that even last
year these school-sponsored lectures tended to get
pretty packed. If ‘I don’t manage to get there early
enough to find a seat, I guess I’ll just have to wait until
the book Prof. Davis is compiling from the speeches
goes to press.

I just hope I can get to the bookstores before it sells
out! If there’s one thing more exciting than hearing
aboutresponsibility, it’s reading about responsibility.
I’ll bet Prof. Davis got a big fat advance from the pub-
lishing company for that book. Talk about your sureﬁre
New York Times best sellers!

I’ll'tell you one thing: The Responsibility Sympo-
sium has already deeply affected my life. I haven’t been
able to sleep in weeks! I just lie there in bed at night
thinking about how great the lectures are going to be
and the adrenaline starts pumping through my veins
and before I know it it’s morning. My eyes are so red
traffic stops when I blink. My life is a living hell!

Man, I love symposiums, I just love them, and this
one is easily the most thrilling, awesome, downright
orgasmic symposium I’ve ever heard about. It’s going
to be better than sex! I’m so glad they decided to com-
memorate the 250"‘ anniversary of our school by holdﬁ
ing a symposium that really speaks to my generation.

So, my friends, I’ll see you Tl1ursday_in room A214
of the Science Addition when Ralph Lerner delivers his
lecture “The American Founders and Responsibility”
to open the Responsibility Symposium. Start camping
out Wednsday night for the good seats! I know I will.
It’s not like I’ll be able to sleep anyway.

 

Monday

7:30 p.m. Charles Johnson, author of “Middle
Passage.” Lee Chapel.

Tuesday

12 p.m. W&L Employees’ Christian Fellowship
Brown Bag Lunch. Room 113, University
Center.

6:30 p.m. Volleyball: W&L vs. Guilford College. :
Warner Center A

7:30 p.m. Contact Lecture: “The Great Awaken-
ing,” William Cope Moyers ’81. Room 32,
Williams School.

8 p.m. P.R.I.D.E. Lecture: William F. Winter,
former governor of Mississippi. Lee Chapel.

Wednesday

11 a.m.-4 p.m. Study Abroad Fair. Stemmons
Plaza.

Thursday

8:45 a.m. Golf: W&L Fall Classic. Lexington
Golf & Country Club.

4_ p.m. Women’s Soccer: W&L vs. Hollins.
Liberty Hall Field.

6:30 p.m. Volleyball: W&L vs. Hollins College.
Warner Center.

7:30 p.m. Responsibility Symposium Lecture:
Ralph Lerner. Room A214, Science Addition.
Friday

7:30 p.m. Film Society: “The Ice Storm.”
Troubadour Cinema.

Saturday

12 p.m. Men’s Soccer: W&L vs. Virginia
Wesleyan College. Liberty Hall Field.

1:30 p.m. Football: W&L vs. Guilford. (A)

7:30 p.m. Film Society: “The Ice Storm" (USA,
1997), directed by Ang Lee. Troubadour Cinema.
8 p.m. Faculty Recital: Timothy Gaylard, piano,
and Scott Williamson, tenor. Lenfest Center. '
Sunday.

1 p.m. Volleyball: W&L vs. Greensboro College.

AND ‘ii-IE V‘/II\|I\lER~3 t-\RE. . .

In case you
studied through
the 50th Annual

Primetime
EmmyAwards
last night, here

Outstanding comedy series: “Frasier” (NBC)

Outstanding actor in a comedy series: Kelsey Grammer, “Frasier” (NBC) ‘
Outstanding actress in a comedy series: Helen Hunt, “Mad About You” (NBC)
Outstanding supporting actor in a comedy series: David Hyde Pierce, “Frasier” (NBC)
Outstanding supporting actress in a comedy series: Lisa Kudrow, “Friends” (NBC)

Award-winning author Charles Johnson speaks in Lee Chapel

Charles Johnson, win-
ner of the National Book
Award, will speak in Lee
Chapel 7:30 p.m. tonight.
Johnson’s book, “Middle
Passage,” was the fresh-
men reading program se-
lection this summer.

“[Johnson] is one of the
five most signiﬁcant Ameri-
can authors today,” Mark
Conner, Professor of En-
glish, said.

ROCKBRIDGE
B LO 5 l i

.: 

Unlimited Internet

Features:

E-mail

Full, unlimited access

2 MB webspace

latest technology
Personalized local service

call RGV 463-4451

second novel, becoming the
first African-American male
to capture the prestigious
literary honor since Ralph
Ellison in 1953.

In 1990, Johnson won Set in early 19th century lock chairinhumanitiesatthe
the National Book Award New Orleans, “Middle Pas- University of Washington.
for “Middle Passage,” his sage” is the adventurous —from Phi staﬂreports

THE COLONNADE CAM

 

YES, BIG BROTHER IS WATCHING . . . and now
you can watch too/ Link up to the camera on top of Lee
Chapel at http://camerauc.wlu.edu for a constantly
updated shot of the Colonnade. This may not sound very
exciting now, but check it out after rush when the so-

rority pledges start streaking the colonnade.

yet philosophical story of a
freed black man who stows
away aboard a ship that is a
slaver bound for Africa.
Johnson holds the P01-

are the big
winners.

 

Outstanding drama series: “The Practice” (ABC)

Outstanding actor in a drama series: Andre Braugher, “Homicide: Life On the Street” (NBC)
Outstanding actress in a drama series: Christine Lahti, “Chicago Hope” (CBS)
Outstanding supporting actor in a drama series: Gordon Clapp, “NYPD Blue” (ABC)
Outstanding supporting actress in a drama series: Camryn Manheirn, “The Practice” (ABC)

Outstanding miniseries: “From The Earth To The Moon” (HBO)
Outstanding made—for-television movie: “Don King: Only In America” (HBO)

News off the Wire

Doman boasts “mad skillz”

~ Orange County, Ca—— “I gots mad skillz, '

what mo’ can I say?" said former Senator
Bob Doman in a press conference held ear-
lier today. Doman, known for his outspo-
ken conservative views, called the press
conference to announce his intentions to
play professional basketball now that his
political career is over. When asked how
he hopes to compete against professional
athletes half his age and several feet taller,
Doman claimed that he would “dunk over
their sorry asses” and reiterated that his
“crazy phat skillz would pay da bills” on
the basketball court. “B-1” Bob guranteed
that he would “drop bombs” all over his
competitors. “I be like ‘boom biggidy
boom’ scoring all up in that piece, you
know what I’m saying?” said Doman. Pun-
dits are charging that Doman’s foray into
professional basketball is either a “bad

’ publicity stunt” or a “seriously misguided

mid-life crisis.” No NBA team has signed
Doman as of press time, though the Toronto
Raptors have expressed interest.

Beatles sue Oasis

London -—— Apple Corps sued members
of the pop group Oasis today, charging that
Oasis’ upcoming album Revolver is exactly
the same as the 1966 Beatles album of the
same name. “The albums have the same
lyrics, music, cover art . . . the only differ-
ence I can see is that on the back the words
‘Lennon and McCartney’ have been
crossed out after each song and the words
‘Liam and Noel Gallagher’ pencilled in,” said
Ringo Strair. Apple lawyers are also inves-
tigating possible copyright infringements
on the Oasis albums Abbey Road, Meet the
Beatles, With the Beatles and The Beatles
(called “the Blank Album” for its plain white
cover). A spokesman for Oasis said that the
band hopes to move beyond Beatles imita-
tion and will soon -be releasing classic al-

-tude Test contains a bias against the

.study is stirring up waves of protest

bums like Dark Side of the Moon and
Led Zeppelin III.

SAT’s biased against idiots, study says

Princeton, NJ—— A landmark study
conducted by Princeton University
concluded that the Scholastic Apti-

terminally stupid. “Our study shows
that very smart people typically score r
in the 1300- I 500 range, while the very
stupid rarely break the 500 mark,” as-
serts researcher Dr. Stan Lamont. The

among professional wrestling fans and
other people of limited intelligence.
“It’s not fair that I should be kept out
of the college of my choice based solely
on my gross mental incompetence,”
said avowed moron Nomi McNuIty.
ldiotsare also pointing to related stud-
ies that show that intelligence is not
as good a determinant of success in
college as alcohol tolerance.

|s|

 

