ﬂ

H

at

 

U112 ﬂing-tum

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsIrv’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

i

VOLUME 101, No. 8

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

.Students rock vote,
«W&L stays home

Though many W&L student voters chose to stay ,
‘ away from voting booths, general turnout was high

By Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

Last Tuesday’s elections brought
more than a few surprises: a former
professional wrestler assumed the title
of Governor in Minnesota, incumbent
Sen. Al D’Amato of New York was ﬁ-
nally unseated, and the “Lost Genera-

tion” turned out in record numbers.
According to an election night poll

conducted by the National Student
Campaign for Voter Registration
(N SCVR), about 60 percent of Ameri-
can students turned out to exercise
their right to vote.

“Students have smashed the
slacker myth,” NSCVR president Ivan
Frishberg said. “Counter to the con-
ventional wisdom, students are regis-
tered and voting in greater numbers
than the population as a whole.”

The poll found that 72 percent of
students are registered to vote, com-
pared to 63.8 percent of the general
population. An estimated 48 percent
of these voted in this year’s election,
compared to 36.6 percent of the gen-
eral population during the 1994 mid-
term election.

These numbers are unusually high
for an age group that has been known
for its apathy and low participation in
elections.

At Washington and Lee University,
however, national student voting
trends did not seem to hold much wa-
ter. In very unofﬁcial “polls” taken by
professors in class, only a handful of

people had voted.
“We’re a national school, and I

think that kind of hurts us,” said Young
Democrats President Jason Hahn.
“Students come from all over the coun-
try, but are not permitted to vote here,
so they have to vote by absentee bal-
lot at home.”

Admittedly, contacting the county
board of elections at home and ﬁlling out
an absentee ballot can be less than thrill-
ing, and numbers suffer because of this.

When various professors asked
their classes who had voted, very few
hands went up.

“Just a few students raised their
hands,” Professor of Politics William
Connelly said. “A number hadn’t got-
ten absentee ballots in time or hadn’t
sent away for them . . . A lot of people
have other priorities, and college stu-

dents certainly fall within that range.”

Although this election was touted
as the nation’s response to the Con-
gress’ handling of the Clinton im-
peachment proceedings, Republicans
did not receive the strong endorse-
ment or disapproval expected.‘

The NSCVR poll reported that 81
percent of student voters said their
votes were not affected by the events
involving President Clinton and
Monica Lewinsky.

Instead, student voters nationwide
said that education and student aid
were their most important issues. Sev-
enty-four percent felt that candidates
“somewhat adequately” or “ad-
equately” addressed their issues.

In terms of party afﬁliation, students
appeared closely divided. Among
those surveyed, 37 percent were reg-
istered Democrats, 33 percent were Re-
publicans, 14 percent were indepen-
dent, and 16 percent classiﬁed them-
selves as other.

“I think it’s your duty to vote, and
I wish that all students would vote,”
Connelly said. However, “It does not
altogether surprise me that voter par-
ticipation may have been low.”

Online registration
works well, more or‘ less

By Charlotte Graham

STAFF WRITER

Although students began to regis-
ter last Friday, you would not know it
from looking at the Washington and
Lee campus. The usual flutter of stu-
dents bouncing all over campus was
absent as the University Registrar
went to an online system for registra-
tion.

“It’s working more smoothly than
anyone dreamed,” philosophy profes-
sor Lad Sessions said on the
registrar’s discussion web page, “and
the only question is why we didn’t do
this years ago.”

But some people are more reluctant
to the change. Senior George Urban
wrote a lengthy letter to University
Registrar Scott Dittman expressing the
frustrations of some members of the
senior class.

“I have seen more unhappy stu-
dents today than during any other
registration in my four years,” Urban
said in the letter.

Starting times were one source of
frustration. Students with early start
times could ﬁll classes before students
with late times could even begin.

“This inequity of opportunity is a
serious problem in the minds of many,”
Urban said.

Start times were assigned accord-

ing to class schedules, so that no one
would have to miss class to register,
Dittman explained. The starting time
also punished students who did not
preregister, because they received later
starttimes.

The start time is necessary because
if everyone registered at the same time,
it would crash the system.

“We are going to average out the
start times to 50 percent over the next
four terms,” Dittman said.

But seniors will not be on campus
for four terms.

“We only have one more registra-
tion,” senior Beth Arthur said. “Are the
people that had late times for this term
going to get early times for spring tenn?”

Even with an early time for spring
term, the balance is not the same be-
cause there are fewer classes in a stu-
dent’s schedule, she said.

“The first time through we’re learn-
ing a lot about this,” Dittman said. “But
I think the basic structure of it is ﬁne.”

The W&L system is different from
many other electronic registering sys-
tems because it allows students to sign
up for a class, but not for a time slot.

“Our priorities are for the teach-
ers and students,” Dittman said.
“We want it to be fair to the entire
campus.”

The need for the system became
apparent during last fall’ s registration,

when more than half the freshman
class was camping out to get a class.

“We designed it so students could
stand in four lines at once,” Dittman
said.

Jeffrey Knudson, network and sys-
tems analyst, and John Hellmuth, sys-
tems analyst, actually put the program
together. Knudson, who began work-
ing for W&L last year, knows HTML,
a graphical web language, and PERL,
a logic programming language, while
Hellmuth works with Augusta, the
administration’s system.

The programmers designed the
program to comply with the requests
of the Web Registration Development
Subcommittee, which consists of two
students, ﬁve faculty members and
several members of the staff.

The registrar tried online registra-
tion in 1987, but it was unsuccessful.

A lot of pieces had to ﬁt together
on this project in order for it to work,
according to Dittman.

“You have to go with what works,”
Dittman said. “We are going to bend
the tool to it to do what we want it to
do. If it doesn’t, we won’t use it.”

Dittman encourages students to
give feedback on the new system at a
online forum that he established. There
is a link to the forum on the Registrar’s
homepage at http://www.wlu.edu/

. ~registra/.

Frosh set new GPA record

Class of 2002 continuesrecent ‘cream of crop’ tradition

By Eszter Pados

S TA FF WRITER

Washington and Lee University
once again admitted the “cream of the
crop.” On average, this year’ s
freshmen’s midterm grades were even
higher than last year’s.

Last year, the overall average
was 2.788. This year, freshmen
scored higher, settling at a 2.851
overall average.

According to Mark Dalhouse, Dean
of Freshmen at W&L, the scores were
fairly evenly distributed among fresh-
men. There were some 4.05, as well as
scores “at the other extreme” of the
scale, he said.

Dalhouse said that the biggest chal-
lenge for freshmen is the academic
standards of this university. Most stu-
dents here have successful academic
backgrounds, and receive their ﬁrst
bad grade in college. This can be
shocking and discouraging, Dalhouse
said.

“The same thing happened to me
my freshman year in college,”
Dalhouse said. “My midterm grades
were horrible!”

Dalhouse said that it is hard to pre-
dict what will happen to the grades
next term with rush and pledgeship
programs coming up.

“We have 400 individual students,”
he said. “It depends on each indi-

vidual” how these and other activities
will affect his or her academic perfor-
mance.

According to Dalhouse, some
freshmen had a hard start. Dalhouse
said that he believes that nine out of
10 kids who got bad midterrns will work
harder, and improve their grades by
the end of this term.

Midtenn grades are designed to
give students a measure of how they
are doing and adjust study habits if
necessary, Dalhouse said. They are not
designed to scare freshmen.

Overall, Dalhouse is proud.

“I feel gratiﬁed that midterm grades
are so high,” Dalhouse said. “I’m very
proud of [the freshmen].”

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1998

Habitat For Humanity’s annual Barndance gave students such as senior Richard Burrice and
junior Megan Mazour (center) a chance to dance the night away for a worthy cause.

Habitat’s Barndance
expands Project Horizon

By Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

For the third year in a row, Habitat
for Humanity and the Catholic Cam-
pus Ministry joined forces to hold
their annual Barndance to benefit
Project Horizon.

‘ This time, the event raised more
than $1,400 through ticket sales and
donations.

“Thi>r2,year was deﬁnitely the best
year, both turnout wise and in how
much we made,” Habitat President
David Sugerman said. “The money
was raised for Project Horizon. Even
though we’ve already raised the
money for the shelter, this was for them
to use at their discretion.”

The Barndance was held at
Rockbridge Vineyards, about a half an
hour away in Raphine. W&L alumnus
Shep Rouse is the owner and volun-

teered his bam for use.

Entertainment was provided by
Burr Datz, the Catholic Campus Min-
ister, whose band Wildgrass played
for free.

Kappa Sigma, Kappa Kappa
Gamma, Phi Kappa Psi and Kappa Al-
pha Theta all sponsored the event,
and each made a contribution of at
least $200.

“It’s one of those things that
sounds corny, no one wants to come,
but when you get Greek organizations
to pledge their support, especially so-
rorities, then you know you’ll have
people there,” Sugerman said.
Sugerman estimates that about 250
people attended, including students
from both Washington and Lee and
Virginia Military Institute.

“Habitat ran shuttles so that we
could safely get people to and from
the event since it was BYOB,”

Sugerman said. Brian Richardson,
W&L professor of journalism, also
chauffeured students throughout the
evening.

Habitat plans to begin construction
on Project Horizon’s shelter for vic-
tims of domestic violence and sexual
assault early next term. The shelter will
be constructed March 1 1-21 with the
help of VMI and the Timber Framers
Guild of America.

“Through our hard work we helped
raise $35,000 for the shelter and will
now direct our focus toward raising
the same amount for a completely stu-
dent-sponsored house,” Sugerman
said.

For those interested in getting in-
volved in Habitat For Humanity, meet-
ings are on Thursday at 6:30 p.m. in
Room H4 in the University Center.
Fundraising workshops are held from

10 am. to 1 pm. on Saturday.

Bambi cruises Colonnade

By Charlotte Graham

STA FF WRITER

Students are not walking ‘on the
grass, but apparently deer are. They
have visited the Front Lawn several
times and the area near Doremus Gym-
nasium, probably in search of food.

“A doe and two fawns were in front
of the Lee House about midnight,” said
senior Nate Tencza, who saw the deer
about two weeks ago. “They ran
across the Front Lawn toward VMI.”

Senior Drew Higgs was with Tencza
and saw the deer also. “They didn’t
even cross the brick path to Lee
Chapel,” he said. “They just jumped
right over it.”

Tencza saw the deer twice on the Front
Lawn and once near Doremus Gym.

Physical Plant personnel have seen
deer only in the back part of campus
near the law school and Woods Creek.
The presence of the deer has not been
a problem, Randolph Hare, Associate
Director of Physical Plant said. “As far
as ﬂower beds and mulched areas are
concerned, we’ve not seen a problem,”
Hare said.

When the grass dies this year, deer
will start to eat bark and twigs, though
they normally eat leaves and acorns.

The deer may also be on campus now
because the middle of October to the end
of November is their mating season.

“This is the time of year when they
are really active because it is their
breeding season,” Helmick said. “They
are traveling because the males are
chasing the females, and the females
are running away.”

But Hare said that so far the high
number of deer has not been. a prob-
lem. “If they become a problem, we would
probably contact the animal control de--
partment and seek guidance,” he said.

Both campus security and the
Physical Plant warn people who are

driving in the back part of campus to
be especially cautious.

If you freeze deer in your highlights,
you should ﬂash your lights to break
their gaze, suggested Nick Tatar, Out-
ing Club ﬁeld coordinator.

Jessica Helm, a junior, can attest to
the danger of a late night encounter
with a deer. She received an estimated
$2,050 worth of damages when she hit
a deer after leaving Zollman’ s Pavilion
on Oct. 30. She hit the deer as she was
coming around a curve.

“One was jumping down an em-
bankment and I swerved to try to avoid
him. I skidded off the road, but still hit
the back of him,” she said.

Director of Security Mike Young
advises students to call a law enforce-
ment ofﬁcer if they are involved in a
accident involving a deer.

Other than hurting your car, deer
are not dangerous animals. “They are
very shy animals,” Helmick said “If you
lunge at them they are going to run
away from you.”

@112 ﬂting-tum ilﬁhi

November 9, 1998

     
 

-..w..«..:...~».-,..-4-.«..-.._,,,u _

OPINION:

W&L1EE:

SPORTS:

Junior Hillary Everest bought t
Panic tickets, which sold out after two days.

Election reaction, registration and an angry letter

Prep :21 Porter: what students wear and where
they shop for their clothes

Volleyball wins ODACS,

 
   

I V Phoo by Mie Crittendonn r

he last three Widespread

PAGE 2

PAGE 3&4

football falls hard
PAGE 5

 

 

Elie filing-tum lﬂlii

  OPINION

Vote Shrub (Little Bush)
for President 2000

When the shocking (and sicken-
ing) resurgence of the Democratic
Party and the demise of Newt Gingrich
ﬁnally sank into my
pachyderrnic heart, I

got to thinking 

ﬁlvvv

3 .
9 * a»
t .

 
   

about possible solu— 

tions. its

In a very short
interval, 1 had one:
my governor, George W. Bush, better
known to fellow Texas Republicans as
“W” or “Shrub.”

The party needs a new leader with
the savvy, personality, know-how and
dedication of Gingrich minus the
mouth. Shrub is the perfect man to pull
the party together. He is a Washing-
ton outsider, far removed from the ig-
nominious scandal in Washington
and the often inappropriate partisan
response that sickened the general
public.

He is blessed with his father’s old-
line Yankee Republican ideology and
a uniquely pragmatic Texan character
and personality that many people can
appreciate. .

He might bring about a Republi-

&l\/likeAgr1elloU2

 

can revolution by bringing in minor-

ity groups; he can comfortably con-

duct an interview in Spanish and sup-
ports bilingual educa-
tion, provided proof of
higher test scores re-

, sult. He is a fervent
Chris-

avoids the Christian
lobby and refuses to
moralize and impose
his faith on others.

Bush admits im-
perfection, saying
that “when I was
young and irrespon-
sible, I was young
and irresponsible.”
He admits to being a
hard drinker at one
time, though he has not taken a drink
in 12 years. Telling the truth unsolic-
ited and not covering it up or lying
about it -— what an interesting con-
cept!

I know what all you whiny, candy-
ass skeptics are saying: “He’s only

2'1“; cc ——
When I was
young and
irresponsible, I
was young and
irresponsible.

—— George W. Bush

where he is because of his name.”
With the exception of“I did not have
a relationship with that woman,” a
more untrue statement has never been
uttered.

The family name and connections
certainly have not hurt him, but his
own ambition has kept
him on top.

Under his ever—watch-
ful eye, Texas has en-
joyed the lowest unem-
ployment rate, the largest
economic growth and the
lowest crime rate in years.
Shrub himself sums it up
best when he says, “I’m
not the [presidential
front-runner] because of
9 ’ ’ my name, I’m the [front-

runner] because I’m the
governor of the great
state ofTexas and I have a famous mother!”

So I appeal to all voters, Republi-
can and Democrat, to cast your vote
in the year 2000 in a responsible and
practical manner — vote Shrub 2000.
I mean, who else are you going to vote
for, Dick Gephardt?

Republicans face difﬁcult future

So, Newt is out. Who will be in? That
is a question plaguing political watch-
ers around the nation. For those of you
who may not spend your Friday eve-
nings watching C-span and CNN Head-
line News, Newt Gingrich ofﬁcially re-
linquished his
Speaker of the 
House position. 

Effective at  
the end of the ‘°

 

    
     

V.
9?.»
N-'

.5‘

Just Plain Right
 Jan Rowan 01

gress for the first time in more than
40 years. He has given the party unity
and was the force behind a speciﬁc
and well-organized party platform.
The Republicans knew what they
wanted and Gingrich’ s leadership pro-
vided the struc-
ture for getting
their legislation
passed. Gingrich
did the right

 

term in January, H . ‘ . . .
the House will be under new leader-
ship. Gingrich will also be leaving Con-
gress altogether, leaving an open spot
for Georgia Representative.
Following the elections this past
Tuesday and the failure of the Repub-
licans to capitalize on the Democratic
shortcomings (Clinton), there has
been much talk amongst other Repub-
licans that new leadership is needed.
It is clear that Gingrich has been
an effective leader. He managed to
lead the incredibly successful Repub-
lican Revolution of 1994 when the Re-
publicans regained control of Con-

.  .1?‘ thing.‘ for the

E   natioii  steippirigiidown.

His power was signiﬁ-
cantly reduced and he re- C C
alized that remaining in of— '

ate will be Majority Leader no more.
And how will this affect the impeach-
ment hearings? I don’t think I would
be going too far out on a limb to say
that Bill Clinton is a happy camper this
weekend. His job security is so much
greater following these elections.

Oh well, maybe this means a new
Speaker will be elected and even the
liberals will love him or her, then the
President will see how good a leader
can really be, realize the error of his
ways, resign from ofﬁce, somehow re-

move Al “The Bore”
Gore, the American
people will demand

ﬁce would  not only So’ Newt is a respectable leader
his own political career , (Gingrich maybe?),a
but would also hurt the out Who W111 new administration
Republican Party. Who be in? willtake over, every-

knows what he will do
now, and who knows who
the Republicans will
choose, but it will certainly be a dif-
ferent Congress this term.

There are also some convincing
rumors that Dick Armey in the Sen-

one will stop com-
9’ plaining about the
government, and the
world will become ‘a happy place in
which we alljust get along.
That is a reasonable and likely ﬂow,
right? It could happen, couldn’t it?

“It's a helluva lot better than camping out in
front of a teacher’s classroom. It took
forever, but it’s great.”

—-Micah Tolman ’02

“It was convenient because I could do it
from my room. It was kind of frustrating
because it was slow.”

 

—Hillaiy Lockemer ’02

“It’s a lot easier on the old bones.”

—Robert Marrnorstein ’0l

 TO
Elie ﬁling-tum iﬂlii

Phi article upsets
Lexington reader

Dear‘Phz', - L . , V
This letter is in response to Mr. McManemins’
Last Word article on Monday. It's just a hunch, ,
1 but 1 think one of your frat brothers borrowed .
, your discs to make, a tape. Anybody with half a“
. brain knows, thalzithieving townies don't listen to p
. goodfrnusic‘; If you-had lost your Hank Jr. or some
, Cyprus Hill, then perhaps a townie is toblaine. »
‘.‘As for you breaking lmeeeapsiiiny address is 106
N Main, I amthe’.big’aiigry1:ooking guy in the ,
kitchen. Bring afiiendl “ o ...«   "
.  ; Hard earned money? iIlxos_e“checks from daddy :
 "‘surefare hard to get! : ~  2   ~ -.9 j  j 2
Check with your drunken BB buddies before
angering the threevtownies that read your cheesey I
 Iittlerag. You know wlierel am, bigguy,‘vand'rny
kne6S feel fine. I o’ "   .

, Sincerely, _ _
;;J_ess6McGuire 

The-Ririg-turnfhi irivltes,Letters to the Editor
I A from our readers. If youhave thoughts, ‘com-1 L ‘
plaints or ideas, please send them to us. I 1'

 

3»;
s


 

 

NOVEMBER 9, 1998
registratio n

lt’s the day of sophomore registration. I walked up to my
first class today thinking, I kinda miss the old registration. As
much as we com-
plained about it, at V,;‘.};.;I,,\“  
least we knew it  g “'3;
worked. What if this I‘ ,,,,.I-Ieatlier McDonald '01
doesn't work? ‘ :?____.———

What if the system -
crashes? What if I can't get my classes? I was randomly
assigned a mediocre time — at least I could sleep out last year
and be guaranteed at least one class . . .

I get back a little before I p.m., my login time for registra-
tion. Okay. I'm abit nervous. The clock turns one and I type
in my passwords. I point and click and point and click for the
classes I want, and then press "go to next step." I wait a few
minutes for the system to respond, as I begin to fear the worst.

No sore back from sleeping on the ﬂoor of Newcomb or
sharing a J-School couch or a drafty science center. None of
the “Hey, I was in line ﬁrst! What happened to the list started
last night?” No running between Payne, the C-School and
Tucker. In under 13 minutes . . . 1 AM FINISHED WITH

' WINTER TERM REGISTRATION. I stare at my computer

screen in wonderous, pious awe. IT WORKED!

Perhaps nexttime I won’t be so lucky. Perhaps I'll be in the
last time slot and I'll get royally screwed for classes and I won't
graduate on time because I can't ﬁnish my majors . . . But right
now, I don't think that's going to be the case.

To Mr. Dittman, University Computing and to all of those
who were involved in this gigantic step forward for W&L, I
say thank you a hundred times over. You have made my life
that much easier.

Small like rah,
nishl the whols
wul: llwrovglll 5.-,<

 

“It's better than sleeping out for classes.”

—Liz Borges ‘O1

Cilia iliing-tum iﬂlii

E-mail General Notes to .5
~‘,‘phi@wlu.edu m

mm... ,

 

Group for sexual assault victims meets
A confidential support group sponsored by the Uni-
versity Counseling Service will begin meeting weekly for
Washington and Lee women who have experienced sexual
assault or abuse at any time in their lives. Each member will

first meeting.

sign an agreement of conﬁdentiality. Please call Carol

Calkins, the Counseling Service secretary, or the Univer-

Eating problems support group meets
A confidential support group sponsored by the Uni-
versity Counseling Service will begin meeting weekly for
women who are dealing with binge eating, binge/purge
eating or very restricted eating.
If you are facing any of these problems in your daily
life, you are invited tojoin this confidential group. Each
member will sign an agreement of conﬁdentiality at the

Please call Carol Calkins, the Counseling Service secre-

tary, or the University Health Service at X8401 to learn of
times and locations.

Hodges speaks on accountability

sity Health Service at x8401 to learn of times and locations.

Bacon’s guitar sizzles in Lee Chapel

Classic guitarist Guy Bacon will perfonn a recital in Lee
Chapel next Tuesday at 7:30 p.m.

Grandson of American composer Ernst Bacon and son
of classical guitarist Joseph Bacon, Guy comes from a
long established family tradition ofquality music making.

His recital in Lee Chapel will feature works by Bach, Sor,
Mareno—Torroba and Britten. There is no charge for the con-
cert, which is sponsored by Catholic Campus Ministry.

JAMES G. LE‘./I3 .

WASHINGTON 8: LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXlNGTON. VA 24450

Louis W. Hodges, the Knight Professor oflournalism
at Washington and Lee University, will present a talk on
“Joumalism Accountability and Emerging Strategies by
Plaintiffs,” on Friday at4:30 p.m. in Room 327 in the Will-
iams School.

The respondent to his presentation is Brian C.
Murchison, professor oflaw at W&L, who will provide a
legal framework on this issue.

This lecture is part of W&L’s 26th Annual Institute on
the Ethics of Journalism, sponsored by the Knight Pro-
gram. The public is invited to attend.

q NOV 10 1.995

,,‘»-in"v‘

Alumnus reads poems in Northen

The Glasgow Endowment Committee will sponsor
a reading by Washington and Lee alumnus Christian
Wiman on Wednesday at 4 p.m. in Northen Audito-
rium.

Wiman will read from his recently published collec-
tion of poems, “The Long Home” (Story Line Press),
which won the 1998 Nicholas Roerich Poetry Prize.

Born and raised in West Texas, Wiman received his
B.A. in English from W&L in 1988 and is currently the
Jones Lecturer in Poetry at Stanford University, where he
was a Wallace Stegner Fellow. His poems and critical
essays have appeared in “The Threepenny Review,” “Po-
etry,” “The Sewanee Review,” “Shenandoah” and
“TriQuarterly.”

Wiman has lived in England, Mexico, Guatemala and
the Czech Republic. He held a Dobie-Paisano Fellowship
at the University of Texas at Austin and a Ruth Lilly
Fellowship from the Modern Poetry Association.

Afﬁrmative action admissions argued

The ﬁnal round ofthe Washington and Lee School of
Law’s 19th annual John W. Davis Moot Court Competi-
tion will be held in the Moot Courtroom on Thursday at 4
p.m. The public is invited to attend.

Executive Editors
News Editors
W&Life Editors
Opinions Editors
Sports Editors

Last Word Editor
Copy Editors

Photo Editors
Online Editor
Assistant Online Editor

Business Manager
Advertising Directors

Circulation Director

Tarah Grant
Hollister Hovey
Polly Doig

John Stewart
Ginger Phillips
Erica Prosser
Stephanie Bianco
Stephen Pesce
Frances Groberg
Brendan Harrington
Kevin McManemin
Sarah Meldrum
Meredith Mlynar
Emily Barnes
Scott Cameron
Mike Crittenden
Tom Wadlow
Lionel Brown

Jason Williams
John Costello
Matt Lorber
Lionel Brown

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editors, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 ofthe University Center, by noon
on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “Talkback” do not
reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current

court deﬁnitions oflibel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center

Washington and Lee University

Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049

Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wIu.edu
http://wIu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

.43,

 

 

NOVEMBER 9, 1998

&

G112 {King-Gum iﬁht

IF E

PAGE 3

by Elianna Marziani
STAFF WRITER

“There’s not a lot of diversity in
the way people dress [at W&L],”
freshman Laura Sigismund said.

This comment is considered a ma-
jor understatement to many visitors to
the W&L campus, who all remark about
how all the students here look the same.

The very fact that
everyone talks about
the way all W&L stu-
dents dress “preppy”
makes one wonder:
Has it always been this
way? Everyone knows
how the student body
looks now, but how has
W&L fashion devel-
oped over the years‘?

From the begin-
ning ofthe University
until the mid-1960s,
“conventional dress”
was the norm for
campus fashion.

Frank Parsons, Co-
ordinator for Facilities
Planning and a 1954
graduate of W&L, ex-
plained that “conven-
tional dress equated
wearing a dress shirt
and a tie and a jacket,
or in some cases, the
guys in the law school
would wear suits.”

Earlier than that,
conventional dress
was a three-piece
suit. By the 1960s,
conventional dress
referred to a coat
and tie. This tradi-
tional dress code
was very important
on campus.

“It was taken for granted. It was
enforced by the Student Assimi-
lation Committee by fines,” Pro-
fessor J. Davis Futch said.

The Student Assimilation Commit-
tee was a group devoted to enforcing
traditions at W&L — from conventional
dress to the speaking tradition.

They took theirjob seriously and
did a good job of it, as evidenced
by Professor J. Holt
Merchant’s (’6l) re-
mark: “We all
looked remark-
ably alike.”

He then cat-
egorized the items
that made up a
W&L student’s daily
attire in the late 1950s
and early
1960s. ‘‘It
was loaf-
ers with
athletic
socks
a n d
khaki
Pants,
but-
ton-
down
shirts
they
were usually
white then —
and coats and
ties, frequently
with blue blazers.”

Photo counesy of “Come Cheer”

W&L students have
traditionally been
considered stylish
dressers. This W&L
“dandy” was prob-
ably a member of the
class of 1919 and
proves that the coat
and tie are as much a
part of the campus as
the white columns
and green grass.

 
  
  
  
   
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 

Until 1965, freshmen were also re-
quired to wear beanies. They were
required to wear these traditional
caps from the start of school until
the end of the first term in mid-
January, unless the football team
won its homecoming game.

Sound like a fashion statement you
would NOTmake? If a freshman were
caught without his beanie on, he was
punished by having to
wear a yellow beanie
in place of the regu-
lar one. A yellow
beanie also served
as punishment for
walking on the grass.

If a student were
caught without his
coat, the Student As-
similation Committee
ﬁned him. Such punish-
ments for improper
dress abounded.

These punish-
ments were usually
unnecessary, how-
ever, because the stu-
dents dressed accord-
ing to convention. It
was expected of them,
and they followed it
unquestioningly for
the most part.

“W&L students al-
ways came off as sort
of dandies and took
considerable "pride in
the fact that they did
that,” Parsons said.“‘l
liked wearing a coat
and tie.” Students
dressed like young
professionals and
seemed to enjoy it.

As everything does
with time, this attitude
changed. “It went away
during the student rebellions of the
’60s,” Merchant said.

This deterioration of conventional
dress began in 1965 or 1966.

“it’s funny how it began,” Parsons
said. “First it was socks. Socks began
to disappear.” These sockless men still
wore coats and ties, amazingly enough.

Then they began to carry their
coats over their shoulders, and
eventually they would bring their
coats to class only to leave them

hanging outside the door all day.
As if that weren’t enough, they
began loosening their ties and un-
buttoning their shirts. Things be-
gan to deteriorate rapidly from there.

Dean Laurent Boetsch, who at-

M tended W&L from ’65 to ’69, stated it

most aptly: “I was here when fash-
ion changed dramatically.”
Futch described how
the fashion changed.
“A student body
president was
elected around 1966
who was opposed
to conventional
dress, so he sent
the Assimilation
Committee run-
ning off into the
sunset.”

With the dis-
integration of
the Assimila-
tion Committee,

no one really en-
T-‘it forced the conven-

Sound famil- tional dress code on
iar? Story has it the students.
thatthekhaki pants “One of the
came in style as a things I think has been

result of WWII.
Men came back
home from the war
and wore their khaki
army pants with a
jacket, thus creating a
new outfit for post-war
America and a new style
that remains popular to this
day at W&L. Just look
at the guys going in
and out of Lee Chapel.

  
  
    
   
 

strongest at W&L over
the years is the accep-
tance that these student
traditions are student tra-
ditions,” Parsons said.
Thus, “because [conven-
tional dress] was a student
tradition, nothing was
done” when the students
began dressing down.
And dress down they did.
“People looked like walking

garbage dumps,” Merchant said. “It

was very fashionable to wear rags, es-

pecially if you had a lot of money.”
Futch agreed, describing a young

"man he knew who, “though already

a tycoon in the making, indulged in
the whim of deliberate sloppy
dress, and, in warm weather, very
skimpy dress.”

Futch went on to give what he
perceives as the reason for this
change in the students’ preferred
way of dressing. “It was because
student radicalism was in vogue
on big campuses in the Northeast.
Our students played the game of
monkey see, monkey do,” he said.
“Those four years of ’69 to ’73

were the period when an extremely
rapid and disturbing change took
place.”

The change was disturbing to ad-
ministrators at the time too. Frank
Gilliam, Dean of the College at the time,
did not see the deterioration of con-
ventional dress itself of as much of a
problem as the precedent that it set
for the breaking of traditions.

He worried that the honor sys-
tem might disappear in this great up-
heaval going on in the school. For-
tunately, that did not happen. The
conventional dress did disapp-.ir for
a while, however.

Boetsch said that under the sys-
tem of conventional dress, “you would

 

dress up conventional dress or dress
down conventional dress. By the late
’60s, it was just dress down.”

When Professor Brian Richardson
(’73) arrived as a freshman in 1969,
“there were a few freaks running
around without a coat and tie, but they
were real anomalies.”

Alter 1970, however, radical changes
began taking place on campus.

Parsons explained that the students
in this period were rebelling against
the military industrial establishment.
Members of that establishment wore
coats and ties, so students deter-
mined they would not.

Richardson included as popular
styles of the time the buckskin look:
suede moccasins, suede fringe jack-
ets, embroidery and beads; the blue
collar look: denim work shirts,
workman’s boots and even con-
struction hats; and the general sloppy
look: jeans with patches, some of
which had bumper sticker slogans on
them, and abundant facial and head
hair. Dreadlocks and afros for men of
all races were quite popular, as well.

“Fashion at W&L hasn’t devel-
oped that much,” agreed freshman
Blair Manning. “The guys still wear
ties to tailgate and stick to tradition.
But I like it. I like the tradition. I
think it’s one thing that makes the
school attractive.”

Dressing up for tailgating? “I think
it makes it more fun,” she said. “It’s
almost a way of showing your spirit
and showing you care.”

Dean Boestch agreed that dress-
ing up for the game was a great tradi-
tion and asserted that “many visitors
go to the homecoming football game
only to see the fashion!”

Everyone at W&L does seem to
dress alike and dress up all the time,
whether it be for class, for tailgating
or for a concert at Lee Chapel.

“I think everyone pretty much
dresses the same, but I think every-
one looks nice for the most part,”

junior Tyler Bates remarked. “I think
[dressing up] is fun, actually.”

Dean Boetsch added that while it
does seem like all W&L students dress
alike, all students at every college

    

l.’ .
Phi File Photo

T-shirts and shorts at a football game? Not at W&L. Dressing
up for tailgating and the big game is a W&L tradition that always
makes those Saturdays during football season so much fun.

Walking around campus these .

days, one does not encounter too
many students with dreadlocks,
construction hats or suede moc-
casins. This may cause one to
wonder what inspired the change
back to more traditional dress, and
when it occurred.

After the 1970s, dress gradually be-
came more “normal.” Pants began
shrinking down to normal size, and hair
grew less abundantly. Some young
men even began going back to coats
and ties in the late ’70s.

“I understand that by the mid-
’80s, however, it was [still] kind of
an animal house around here,”
Richarson said. .

Merchant offered a theory as to
the reason for the final change of
fashion at W&L. “The first co-eds

came in ’84, and things really turned I ‘

around. The guys didn’t want to

   

dress alike; he merely alleges that at
W&L, students’ way of dressing
alike is dressing nicely.

Fashion at W&L has gone through
many changes over the centuries.
Yet, throughout all these changes,
the concepts of tradition have
emerged victorious.

Every time a W&L woman
wears a sundress to a tailgate, ev-
ery time a W&L man wears his
khakis and blue blazer to a Lee

"

look like imbeciles in front of the 

young women in class.”

Parsons agreed, citing the example
of a young man who grumbled about
the arrival of coeducation on campus,
because “he had to be a little cleaner,

a little more presentable now that he ‘

an

had young women around.”

Since the 1980s, W&L students
have been known for their neat,
clean-cut style of dressing.

“I think we have the best look-
ing student body in the country,”
Boetsch declared.

Richardson agreed, saying that
especially “most ofthe women are
careful about the way they dress
all the time.” He added, “If it’s
just because of who they are, their
pride, that’s fine.”

Parsons believes that W&L has
gone back to a system of conventional
dress. “Even though they don’t dress
in coats and ties, everyone looks
pretty good. I think we have conven-
tional dress right now.”

    

Photob Emily Bames/Photd Ed oi‘
Seniors Cory Mettee and
Elizabeth Meloy prove that
dressing up can be great
but that sometimes it’s
just fun to be comfortable!

Chapel event, and every time a stu-
dent takes off his baseball cap
when entering a classroom, one
sees that convention and tradition
are still very much a part of the
W&L community.

*Historical photographs are cour-
tesy of the commemorative book
“Come Cheer for Washington and
Lee: The University at 250 Years.”

 

 

PAGE 4

W&

  

@112 ﬁling-Gum iﬂlii

IFE

 

NOVEMBER 9, 1998

Dressing your best when conﬁned to Lex

by Erica Prosser
F EA TURES EDITOR

Some things about the Washing-
ton and Lee University fashion scene
never change.

Wearing khaki pants with blue blaz-
ers and dressing up for class and foot-
ball games arejust two such fashion
traditions.

But where do W&L students find
their togs? Do they shop here in town,
or do they go elsewhere to assemble
that personal state —
ment?

“I never buy
clothes in Lex-
ington,” senior
Sarah McCrone
said. “My sister
goes to Longwood .
College in Farmville,
VA, and goes to my
home in Richmond almost
every weekend. She and my
mom buy me clothes when they go
shopping.”

Sarah said that she goes home to
find new clothes in her closet from
those shopping excursions. If she ab-

  
 

These stu-
dents show
that no matter
what the W&L
student wears,
from khakis to
jeans, he "
always looks
stylish. Pic-

tured are Wes
Hoke ’o0 
Leonard
Rorrer ’99, 2
Susan Groves .9 ‘
’0l, Pat *
Renton ’01
and Evan .

 

¢

96°”

9&5 Guaran

NO CRED1T,N 1  
no credit - bad credit - no income?

YES!

     

solutely has to buy something her-
self, she goes to Roanoke to do it.
Other students were of a similar

   
  
   

people with no hips,” she said. She too,
never shops for clothing in Lexington.
So maybe some of the women ofW&L

mind. find better options elsewhere.
‘‘I don ’t What about the men?

shop in Lex— Junior Steven Klotz admitted
in gton,” that his favorite piece of cloth-
j u n i or ing is a W&L baseball cap he
Meredith purchased at the W&L Book-
Welch store and

said. “I l  “lost on

get the multiple oc- 1

hell outta casions.”

dodge and “I don’tcur-

go to Roanoke rently own one

or just wait un- 9' [a W&L base-
til I get back ball cap], but I
home.” think it's high time

Senior Suzanne Scott favors Eddie
Bauer, either the store or the catalog.
“Their clothes are reasonably
priced, comfortable, and hold up
well,” she said. Her favorite item of
clothing is a pair ofbutton-fly jeans
she got there two months ago.

An anonymous senior girl prefers
to do her shopping at Lemer’s or the
Gap because of the selection and the
reasonable sizes. 1

“[The clothes] are not made for

  
   
 

 
 
 

  

Tird of Bein

I get another
from the Book-
store,” he said.

Beyond that,
he thinks very
rarely about
clothes and
doesn7t shop
for new
clothes in Lex—
ington.

Junior William Kanner also avoids

. Pioto by Emily Barnes 100

 
  
 
 
 
 

shopping in Lex.

“I have not found a place around
here,” Kanner said. “However, I
have not looked too hard either. I
have been doing my clothes
shopping in Roanoke

The fact that these students
don’t shop in downtown Lexington
doesn’t mean that the local

shops aren’t worth

visiting. When you
find a clothing

 
  
   
  
  
  
  
    
 

and a little in shop that you
Charlottesville.” consistently

“I think that 1 1 k e ,
is because though,
in Roanoke y 0 u ’ 1 1
there is a wamto go
mall, so it is all back, even if
there and that shop is

in a mall in

Roanoke, in a catalog,

. back home or right
around the comer.

easy,” he said. “I
guess I prefer simplic-
ity in ﬁnding clothes, which I
have not found in Lexington.”

 

ginning in the early 1900s W&L
gathered four times every year for
formals, also known as sets.

The Fancy Dress Ball consisted
of one formal dance and a second
themed costume ball.

In 1953, the ball was televised
live on NBC 's Dance Party. In the
spring, there were two formals and
numerous fraternity lawn parties.

The last set of the year was Fi-

nals, when seniors gave their
farewell to the W &L social scene.
It was also a special occasion for
an all-male school. The women
did not have chaperones.’

  

Just because Washington and Lee did not admit women into its academic ranks
until 1984 does not mean that they were not around. W&L has always been
surrounded by many private woman’s colleges including Mary Baldwin College,
Hollins University, and Randolph-Macon Woman’s College. These stylish W&L
men are shown here with the “fair daughters” from neighboring schools.

Photo courtesy of “Come Cheer”

INSTAN CREDIT    .
teed Credit Cards with Credit Limits
Up To $10,000 Within Days!
O JOB, NO PARENT SIGNER, NO SECURITY DEPOSITl

If You Think You_
Can't Get A Crec_lIt
Card, Think Again.

  

     ORDER FORM, I  
1 want Credit Cards immediately.

CRA, PO Box 16662, ATLANTA, GA 30321

. - - . . . . . - - . . . . . . . . . . ¢ . . u . a - - c - - a o - o o . - - o . - ..
, . . . . . . . n . u o - - - - o o o ~ - - - o - - - o . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . o o o - - o - - - . - . . . . . o . . . . . - o o o u . . a . o o o - - o - o . . . . . . . . . . . . - - o < - - o - - - - o o . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . - o o . o a - --
. . . . . . o o n - - u o - - - - o - - o - u o - o - o ¢ . . . . . . . . . . . . - . u o . . o a - o u - - on .

l - . ¢ - c u w . u a . . . o - o n n o o c n o n o o o o o u - - o no
.............................................................................................................................................. ..
................................................... ..
.
. .
. State . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Z1 ......  ............................................ ..
.................................................................................. . .
..................................................... .. .

................................................................................................................................................................................. ..
ZIIUTC ................................................. ..

  ‘urned Down?
Guaranteed $10,000In Credit! 1

 
 
     

 

 

3‘

NOVEMBER 9, 1998

_ . _.._-.....-u..-».m.v.i.....A..AL 6-A£tAus.—...«n£nr:InJ.'1.’Li\.‘.'4.¢.I..tE.lb..E,_1a...LL.u;ln5ﬁidn.. ..£.»l-l:'v...£..'.‘....4.

S

Volleyball captures ODACS

For’ the second straight year, the Generals dominated the
conference. Now the team has to wonder whether the NCAAs
will recognize their dominance with a bid to the tournament.

by Steele Cooper

STA FF WRITER

Washington and Lee entered Friday’s ODAC Touma-
ment at Bridgewater College as the ﬁrst seed and reigning
champions. On the heels of the powerful combination of
freshmen and veteran talent, the Generals captured their
second straight ODAC Tournament
Championship.

Friday, the Generals won their open-
ing match against Hollins College to ad-
vance to the semiﬁnals (15-2, 15-4, 15-
11). Saturday, W&L defeated fourth-
seeded Roanoke College in the semiﬁ-
nals (15-13, 15-7, 15-8) and third-seeded
Eastern Mennonite University in the ﬁ-
na1s(9-15,15-13,17-15, 15-9).

Leading the offense for the Gener-
als once again against Roanoke was
freshman Lindsay Ruckert. Ruckert totaled 14 kills,
seven blocks, and 14 digs. On Saturday, Ruckert to-
taled 21 kills and ﬁve blocks in leading W&L to victory
against EMU. Ruckert was named tournament MVP, and
all-conference rookie ofthe year. “It was all really ex-
citing. It felt great knowing that I had made a contribu-
tion to this team,” Ruckert said.

Fellow freshmen Lee Charbonnet and Ricka
Hildebrand were,also strong offensive forces for the
Generals. Charbonnet had 12 kills, four aces, and 13

It was the
perfect ending
to the season.

— Ricka Hildebrand

digs against Roanoke. Hildebrand posted nine kills and
two blocks against Hollins, and 15 kills, four blocks,
and 13 digs against Eastern Mennonite on her way to
earning all-tournament team honors.

“It was the perfect ending to the season,”
Hildebrand said. “It’s hard being the team to beat be-
cause they all come out really fired up to beat you, but
we didn’t let them.”

Junior outside hitter Nancy
Reinhart posted five kills and nine
digs against Hollins on Friday.
Reinhart was named to the all-con-
ference second team.

Sophomore Pam Saulsbury led the
setting for W&L during the tourna-
ment. Against Roanoke, Saulsbury
totaled 27 assists, and against EMU
she posted 55 assists. Her total of55
assists against EMU is the second
highest for a setter in school history.

These three wins extended the Generals’ consecutive
winning streak to 16, a new school record. W&L has not
dropped a match since September 26.

The top six teams in the Southern Region will advance
to the NCAA tournament, and the Generals are currently
ranked eighth. The ﬁnal rankings, however, have not been
posted. W&L must now wait to see if it receives a bid for
the NCAA tournament. If so, it will be yet another school
ﬁrst to come from the 1998 season.

Emory & Henry does it again

by Brendan Harrington

SPORTS EDITOR

It’s hard enough for Washington and Lee Football to deal
with losing to Emory and Henry the past 16 seasons, but it
becomes even harder when you take into account some of
the ways in which the team has lost. Case in point: Saturday
aﬁemoon at Wilson Field. The Generals led 20-6 with 6:08 left
in the fourth quarter before Emory and Hemy (9-0, 5-0 ODAC)
scored 17 unanswered points to pull off an amazing come-
from-behind victory to remain undefeated.

“We had a great effort out there today,” head coach Frank
Miriello said. “Our kids really played hard, but we need a
victory against Emory and Henry, not a moral victory.”

Saturday marked the 16th straight time that the Wasps
have defeated the Generals who last lost to W&L 21-15 on
Sept. 18, 1982. The Generals (3-6, 1-4 ODAC) have had a
history of heartbreaking losses to E&H during the streak,
including last season’s game at Emory which saw the Gen-
erals commit four turnovers in the ﬁnal quarter to blow a
17-6 fourth quarter lead.

“Obviously it’s very disappointing,” senior tight end
David Ritchey said after appearing in his ﬁnal game at Wil-
son Field. “I feel like we outplayed them, we deserved to
win. It was a 100% effort by everyone on this team.”

The Generals led 20-6 with 6:08 left in the fourth quarter
and faced fourth and 1 1 from their own two-yard line. Fearing
a blocked punt in the end zone, Miriello decided to have
punter Doug Williams walk it out of the back of the end zone
and take the intentional safety, making the score 20-8.

Emory and Henry got the ball on their own 20-yard line
with 5:54 remaining and quickly drove into Generals’ terri-
tory, wherejunior quarterback Tom Crigger threw a 41-yard
touchdown pass to junior wide receiver David Miller to
make the score 20-15 with 3 :28 remaining.

The Generals picked up one ﬁrst down before they were
forced to punt and the Wasps got the ball back on their

W&L’s long, choking
history against E&H

No team has ever plagued the Generals like Emory
and Henry. The Wasps have beaten the Generals 16
straight times and leads the overall series 22-6. But
it’s not just the losses that deﬁne the Generals’ 16-
game losing streak against Emory and Henry, it’s the
way they’ve lost those games. Here is a quick look a
just a few of those heartbreaking losses.
Sept. 8, 1990 — E&H 22, W&L 21

W&L trailed the Wasps 14-6 early in the fourth
quarter before the Generals stonned back to take a
21-14 lead in the ﬁnal minutes of the game. Like this
year, the Generals decided to take an intentional
safety when facing a punt from their own end zone,
cutting the W&L lead to 21-16 with 37 second left to
play. Emory and Henry got the ball back following
the safety and on the last play of the game, wide
receiver Pat Walker somehow got away from three
Generals defensive backs in the end zone and caught
a 26-yard game-winning touchdown as time expired.
Nov. 9, 1996 — E&H 43, W&Lee 27

The Generals stormed out to an early 14-0 lead
with the help of some trick plays before the wheels
came off in the second quarter. E&H scored 29 con-
secutive points in the second and third quarters to
cruise to an easy 43-27 victory over the Generals.
Nov. 8,1997 — W&L 17, E&H 27

The Generals took a 17-6 lead into the fourth quar-
ter after J .T. Malatesta caught a 78-yard touchdown
pass from Christian Batcheller late in third quarter.
In the fourth quarter, the Generals committed four
turnovers, which led to 21 points by the Wasps, who
held on for the 10-point victory.

Photo by Scott Cameron/Photo Editor
All alone: Senior Christian Batcheller gets

tackled on Saturday vs. Emory and Henry.

own 20-yard line with 1:36 left in the fourth quarter and two
time-outs. The Wasps advanced the ball all the way to the
Generals 34-yard line on a couple of big pass plays, but
faced fourth and 10 with 40 seconds left in the game.

On the fourth down play, Crigger saw a streaking Miller
open on the near sideline and aired it out. Crigger caught
the ball on the two-yard line and fell into the end zone for
the touchdown. The Wasps added the two—point conver-
sion to make the score 23-20.

The Generals got the ball back one last time but Senior
Christian Batcheller was intercepted and the Wasps held on
for the victory.

“I’m really too shocked to put into words how I feel and
how the team feels about this loss,” Batcheller said follow-
ing the game. “In one regard it’s good to feel like you can
play one of the best teams in the country, but to not come
through with the win is tremendously depressing.”

The Generals used six Emory and Henry turnovers to
jump out to the 14-point lead as the defense bent but didn’t
break against Oliver Jordan and the Wasps’ high power
running game.

“The defense is what put us in position to win the game,”
Ritchey said. “To stop their running game the way we did
was amazing.” 

The Generals broke a 6-6 tie with 10:40 left in the ﬁnal
quarter when Batcheller threw a 32-yard touchdown pass
to Ritchey to give the Generals a 13-6 lead. Ritchey ﬁn-
ished the game with ﬁve catches for 86 yards and a touch-
down to lead all receivers.

“I’m very disappointed in the loss, but I’m proud of
how I played and how the team played, the way we came
together, and gave it everything we had,” Ritchey said.

The Generals scored again 26 seconds later when E&H
quarterback Matt Olexy was drilled by W&L safety John
McAllister, forcing a fumble that sophomore defensive back
Will Baker recovered and ran back 21 yards for the touch-
down to make it 20-6 with 10:14 left in the game. Baker
added tackles and an interception to go along with his
fumble recovery and touchdown.

Offensively for the Generals, Batcheller ﬁnished the day
19-29 for 207 yards, one touchdown and one interception
whilejunior tailback Marc Watson ﬁnished with 96 yards
on 20 carries.

“We always get up for E&H and play up to their level,”
Batcheller added. “We need to win a few games earlier in
the season to get our conﬁdence up, and maybe then we’ll
start pulling out games like this in the end.”

...-1 A\5L>n..L . A...-.._..1...... . ....r.. .....  .. .

@112 Ring-tum lﬂlit

PORTS

 

all-ODAC and Rob Naftel and Ken Jackman

On your marks, get set . . . The women’s cross country team line up Saturday at Hampden-
Sydney to compete in the ODAC championships. Both the women’s and men’s teams com-
peted, earning second and ﬁfth places, respectively. On the women’s side, sophomore Wendy
Case was named ﬁrst team all-ODAC, and freshman Gretchen Tencza and sophomore Jessica
Parrillo were named second team all-ODAC. For the men, Darrik Alford was named first team
were named second team all-ODAC.

Rhoto by Emil) Bariies"l’lioto Ed

 

Men’s soccer ends in heartbreak

by Tod Williams M.

STAFF WRITER

The men’s soccer team ﬁnished its season on Tuesday
with a streak that most teams would be proud of— only
two losses in its last 12 games.

Unfortunately, that statistic doesn’t tell the whole story.
The two losses came at the worst time, the last two games
of the season.

The Generals dropped a 1-2 decision in double over-
time to quarterﬁnal ODAC playoff opponent Hampden-
Sydney at Liberty Hall Fields.

The toumey’s fourth—ranked Generals took the lead early
in the game, at 23:05, when senior forward Sam Chase found
the back of the net with a header off a corner kick. Wash-
ington and Lee then carried the 1-0 lead for the majority of
the game, until only 5:24 remained in regulationplay.

When the Tigers’ sophomore defender Trip Jendron
scored at 5:24 off a corner kick, he tied the score at 1-1, and
eventually sent the game into sudden-death overtime.

After 27:01 of scoreless overtime play, freshman de-
fender Josh Dickens scored off a header from fellow fresh-
man Rob Comegys. The game-winning goal was Dickens
third on the season and his second in the last two games.

Tiger keeper Mike Bizon made a season high eight saves
in the game, including two crucial saves that thwarted the
Generals’ chance for the win. With under a minute left in
regulation,junior Jamie Parker’s shot was narrowly knocked
aside by a diving Bizon. Fifteen seconds later, Bizon also
pulled the ball out after it had only partially crossed the

Karin Treese’s
magical feet

by Frances Groberg

SPOR7LS‘ EDITOR

Senior Karin Treese has certainly left her mark here at
Washington and Lee. Most people know that she’s a great
player. Most know that she holds the record for most ca-
reer goals here, with 72. What most people don’t know is
that she broke the record her sophomore year.

There are a few things that make Treese such a standout,
both on and off the ﬁeld. “Shejust loves soccer. It oozes
out of every pore,” head soccer coach Jan Hathom said.
“She has a ‘put it in the goal out ofmy way’ attitude. It’s a
mindset that really stands out.”

Treese began playing soccer at age six, when she and
friend Peter Quin played out in the backyard. She names
Quin, who plays rnen’s soccer at Johns Hopkins University,
as one of her inﬂuences. “I was on his teams in the rec league
until they made me play on the girls’ teams,” Treese said.

Treese continued to play throughout her school career,
meeting her mentor and coach Chuck Nichols in high
school. “I look up to him very much. He taught me a lot,”
she said. Throughout this time, she was reﬁning her skills
and learning about the workings ofthe game.

“When her ﬁeld sense and skills come together, it’s like
there’s no one else out there. She has incredible control
and touch,” Hathorn said. -

When asked if she had considered playing in a Divi-
sion I program, Treese admitted that it had been a dream of
hers since she was small. “I thought I’d be more happy
here, and I have been. I chose W&L for the school, and
the soccer program came with it.”

Yet as incredible as Treese is individually, it is what she
brings to the team effort that really makes her a standout.
“She doesn’t ask of anyone what she wouldn’t do herself,”
sophomore Shana Levine said. “If she’s on the field with
you, you’re a better player than when she’s on the sideline.”

Indeed, Treese’s role as one ofthree captains has en-
abled her to lead in the way she feels most comfortable, by
example. “She’s what every player wants to be,” junior
Ginny Jemigan exclaimed. “She is highly respected, yet so
modest and unselﬁsh that her brilliance never takes away
from the team, but builds it up.”

Hathom believes that Treese’s initiative drives her suc-

goal line, accordingto the referees, thus disbarring a pos-
sible General win.

Hampden—Sydney ﬁnished with a 14-3 advantage in
corner kicks over the Generals.

Chase, who ﬁnished his career as a General with 1 17
total points, a new W&L record, said that the team was
deﬁnitely surprised with the loss. “They were a good team,
but we were favored, and we did dominate play for about
85 minutes," he said.

“We had some unbelievable opportunities, but it was
the kind of good game you expect in the ODAC." Chase
said. “We would’ve liked the chance to have played for
the championship, but I’m proud ofthe team.”

Chase called the team a tight-knit group, and said the
thing he would take most away from the season was how
the team was “always on the same level ~- never too high
or too low.” He continued to say he was proud of the
team’s improvement over the last four years.

“When I got here, we were a below average team, now
we’re not only among the top in the ODAC but in the
South as well,’’ Chase said.

“We were in line for a national bid for the first time in the
team’s history, as far as I know,” he ‘said. “I’m proud ofall
we’ve accomplished here.”

In the Generals 1-0 win over the ligers at Hampden-
Sydney less than a month ago. Chase was the game’s lone
scorer on the day.

Historically, the Generals have dominated in the series.
W&L has knocked Hampden—Sydney out of the ODAC tour-
nament in each of the last ﬁve meetings in the past 10 years.

s"

l’liotov<:miitcs} of Kllllll lrcese
Senior Karin Treese: an asset to the program

cess. “I didn’t teach her anything she didn't already know.
Over the years, she’s improved her foot speed. deﬁned her
role on the team, and made lierscifwliat we needed. She’ll
do whatever it takes.”

Treese led the 1998 Generals to a very successful sea-
son. The team ended the season with an overall record of
11-3, capturing the regular season O1)/\C title. Unfortu-
nately, the Generals could not overcome Roanoke College,
and lost 2-1 in the semiﬁnals of the ODAC tournament.
Still, Treese was extremely optimistic.

“It was the best season talent-wise since 1’ve been here.
The soccer program has improved for the better in the last
four years, and it willjust keep improving," she said.

Treese does not see her soccer career ending at W&L.
“I’ll always be active in the game whether it‘ 11 be playing in
the backyard with my kids or coaching on a regular basis.
lcan’t imagine my life without soccer.”

Hathom had the highest praises for 'l’ree.<c. “livery once
in a while you get an exceptional player in your program. It
has been a privilege to know and work with her, and she
has left W&L soccer better than when she arrived."

‘a

    

 

 

PAGE 6

by Brian Prisco

PH] MOVIE GUY

 

(Wait until it comes out
on video)

“The Siege” is the latest Hollywood
attempt at pissing off militant factions.
An Arabic fanatical group starts
exploding New York City hotspots in
effort to get their “wrongfully
imprisoned” leader back from the U.S.
government, which denies his capture.
The FBI is pitted against the military
when martial law is declared, and the
CIA seems to be playing everyone’s
side. It should have just been called
“Crimson New York.” ’

“The Siege” features a dynamic cast
that is probably its only hope for
drawing any semblance of a crowd.
Denzel Washington (“Courage Under
Fire,” “Crimson Tide”) is back at it
again, playing his typical character: the
civil servant who gives impassioned
speeches and looks good posing with
a gun and covered in blood. It’d be
easy to criticize Washington for being
so carbon copied if not for one small
factor: the man is really damn good at
it. He shines as the boy scout trying
to uphold American ideals against a,
crazed military high—ranking officer
bent on following orders and getting

However,
Hackman, we have Bruce Willis (“Filth
Element,” “Die Hard”) as General
Devereaux, a crazed military high-
ranking officer bent on following
orders and gettingjustice. Willis plays
against Washington extremely well.
His performance isn’t extraordinary;
it’sjust typical Willis. He gets thejob The
done, and he does it efficiently.

Annette Bening (“The American

instead of Gene

LAST

Hollywood lays “Siege” on theater near you

Humor Page

President,” “Mars Attacks!”) acts as
the CIA spook, playing everyone
against everyone else. She manages
to complete the little triangle of talent
5 quite nicely. It’s not as easy to buy
her performance as a government
operative as it is with Willis and
Washington, but her acting is strong
enough to make you not care.

The story is pretty much cut and
paste. Bomb goes off; people get mad;
they kill some bad guys; bomb goes
off again; they get mad; people get
scared; riots ensue. When you have a
movie about terrorism, they pretty
much hit all the clichés and hit them
hard-core. You don’t expect anything
less. The key is having talented and
ﬁin-to-watch actors and a competent
directing angle. I think we’ve found
the problem. »

Edward “please Denzel I need you
in my movie” Zwick directed this movie
and also helped co-write the script. He
worked with Washington in “Glory”
and “Courage Under Fire,” and —— let’s
face it— the man cannot make a movie
without Washington. Zwick’s sort of
been on downslide since his first
movie, and he’s not picking up.
Fortunately, he started off on such a
high note that he hasn’t quite reached
the Mel Brooks range of “Dracula:
Dead and Loving It.” Yet.

Zwick moves the action in the
movie like driving a taxi across a typical
New York street. It’s patchy and full of
holes; it moves far too slowly while
maintaining what is supposed to be a
speedy plot pace, only to stop for
occasional points of interest. The
actors are far too talented to be working
with such piss
poor materials. It’s
like bowling with
a Faberge egg.

received some
harsh criticism

 

464-5800

24 Nprtli Main Street
Lexington, ‘Virginia

Econo Lodge

Spend on nIgM,uo9 a fortune.
IIIIII IIIIIII

540-463-7371

* Parents Discount *
* Newly Renovated *

* Free HBO w/Remote *

* No Smoking Rooms *

* Free Continental Breakfast *

@112 Bing-Gum lﬂhi

l

  WORD

NOVEMBER 9, 1998

from Arab protestors about its unfair
depiction of Arabs and their religion.
This is one point for which Zwick
deserves no nasty comments. If
anything, this movie makes people
more sympathetic toward Arabs. Hey,
let’s face it, there are some Arabs who
are fanatical enough to walk into a
crowded symphony hall with a metric
ton of C-4 strapped to their asses and
kill hundreds in the name of their

by Kevin McManemin

FIT TO BE T150

I didn’t vote in the recent
elections, (I might have lost my
license as an lazy, jaded twenty-
something stereotype) but let me tell
you about someone who did ‘

A recent 

have been one

of those heartwarming, touchy-feely,
flag-waving “yay for America” kind
of stories if it wasn’t for one simple
fact: the president wasn’t up for
election this year.

  

e{z‘teusLi'z ampizedby Kevin Mciranemza if
,bertarians.‘b6astfb_ig? _   ‘
{W "$§in..T98»'.electioris . Q

   
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
  
   
 
   
   

.0 “to? pro,,eiithat as third    
’ ' ineiitly as?-tth,§.i.Democrats’,and
 ' .§pb.kesmaI!§iSai<i;: 

   
 
  

  

 

X, polio..announce ‘
omebae ‘    _  
idesartenheir jcateers.wer¢e::ded ;.
aecineg; the :epid,e,micsi,.srna1lpb an‘ ‘
plans to ‘make ’a/icon ba, /nth
t.°l1r,;     I
gs‘; cjonferencelield earlier today, the 1;
y es rfeponed being. ‘.‘very "e'xcited’_’;—bfy» the :5,
of “returning "to the."g‘lobal"diseaseiisceneéi 
been working on'severa1i..i1ew syxnptomsi f
ypiaiito highlight on tlréworld tour;":alot13g4';<‘\

     

        

e dftheir classic symptoms; . I . — . .
if idernics 2 also respon,c1ed:,_to persistent O

that they ]W°u1dn*’tbe4b1e'.;.to. ha¢1S~itii1‘ii“W<5t1$3 .
'¢d.wiﬂ1 ilberéiiandanics like. Aﬂ3‘S”and 
was Wiph1g’out entire villages before»AIDS“§
. was ven“a'lboil_on‘a gay miinkey7s,butt,” smauppg. A

I‘ Revlonto release potent.  ‘ , — ‘

_   f  * F'~beau.ty‘preduct M V  ‘

Paris  Toutingii its latest ‘products as “the. .

est  ,ft:he.liistoi'y of the feminine 

2: for eaiity,’?»’Rev1on‘relemeditsiiew line of‘m'ake- :‘,;.

2 ii‘ ‘ _aiidfperﬁiInes. amidst, a’ media frenzy; “This ,

‘fproyduct canifmakeyeven the most homely,‘ plain,“ 7‘

‘ unattractive, sunken-chested, pimpIe~faced, bald_,%jg

;=”gari‘gren”ous,‘ foul smelling,  . f}
hideouswoman appear desireable and Aappealingtof 
Ithe/average. ’man,"' a Revlon spokesman "said, later
adding “butieii°ough'about my wife.” ‘ . 6

‘ ' The secret ingredient? Alcohol.

V The fumes in islcentslike “Bau de Beam” and
“Essence de Budweiser” travel through the nasal
cavity and intothe brain where they block a man’s
senseof common decency while simultaneously
inflatinghis libido. Studies have proven that this
patented “dual standard-lowering” technology
increases the‘ chance of male pants-droppage by
almost 85 percent.

Revlon’s newest spokesmodels, Roseanne Barr
and Whoopi Goldberg, ended the press conference
with a chilling threat. “Buy this @!#*$%" product or
I’ 11 bring my sitcom back on the air,” Roseanne said.

  
  

   

 

      
  

cause. This movie makes you feel bad
for the Arabs who aren’t doing these
things and the unfair, racist treatment
they receive. Some of the characters
are blamed because they are Arabic,
not because they did anything wrong.

This movie is frightening because
it makes you wonder: what if it were
me? What if it weren’t an Arab, but a
black person, or a Southern person, 01‘
a Christian? That is the message the

That little incident casts some nasty
clouds over this church picnic we call
democracy. Our beloved system is
based on the ideal of the
conscientious, informed voter. Hey
Founding Fathers, have you boys
been to Wal-Mart lately? Cuz let me
tell ou, it ain’t exactly a brain trust

"‘ out there.

article in The  Theproblem
Roanoke Times  isn’t that
reported that an " I there’s too
old lady showed  - much apathyin
up at the polls " this country.
last Tuesday to  The problem is
do her civic that there isn’t
duty and vote nearly enough.
for president for , "lheproblem
the first time in is that people
herlife. like that dim-

This might photo by Emily Bames/photo editor witted old lady

have had their
heads pumped full of this ridiculous
high school civics class claptrap about
our responsibility — nay —— our duty
to vote. They’re subjecting us to their
half-assed attempts at citizenship,
making poorly-formed decisions
based entirely on an interesting mix
of media soundbites and their own
personal prejudices. We should not
be encouraging Americans to get out
and vote. We should be locking the
voting booths.
The 62 percent of Americans who
abstained from voting in this election

movie gets across. It could be anybody
next, so stop pointing fingers. It
doesn’t single out the Arab cause or
the factions. It says there are crazy
people everywhere, it just so happens
that this time they are Arabs. Next time
it could be you.

However, in making that stunning .

point, it fails to run smoothly. The
movie manages to open and close
strongly, but the rest of it just sort of

(and about 80 percent of my generation)
are maligned by those who largely
misunderstand the doctrine of apathy.
Let me try and elucidate the apathetic
mind set (or lack thereof).

First of all, we realize that our
individual vote doesn’»t,_matter. Yeah
yeah, I’m aware of how bad it is in
theory for everyone to think this way,
but on the individual level, it’s always
true. Your vote really doesn’t matter.
Major elections are not won or lost by
one vote. So, if you can have the same
impact going out and voting or sitting
at home playing video games, what’s
the problem here?

Secondly, many people don’t vote
because they have no real choice.
Lately the eternal battle between the
Dems and Repubs has been about as
hotly contested as a game between the
New Jersey Nets and the Dallas
Mavericks. No matter who wins, they’re
both still losers.

All political races are the same —
two smiley white guys with bland
names like “Bob” or “Dan” talking
about how much they care about me
and how my life would be better if I
vote for them. Yeah. Sign me up.

Finally, and most importantly,
apathy is just easier. It’s much easier
to live happily in this world if you
don’t think about it so much.

Currently we’re wasting far too
much of our national energy on

jumbles around. It’s thoroughly
enjoyable, well worth watching the
acting of Willis, Washington and
Bening, and it has an important
message. It’s just not worth shelling
out seven bucks to see it in a movie
theater. When it comes out on video,
be there.

Or hell, rent “Crimson Tide.” You’ ll
get the same effect and hey, it’s on
boat! '

In defense of political apathy

worrying and we’re giving ourselves a
huge collective ulcer. » _ -

The source of all this tension is
the mass media, which feel the need
to frame every issue in black and
white, as two polar opposite sides
competing against one another. The
ideologues, demagogues and media
hogs have broken our country into
more pieces than the Rolling Stones’
hotel room. 7

The problem isn’t that no one
cares; the problem is that everyone
cares about everything, and no one is
willing to change their opinions.
Americans today have more
unwarranted self-assured attitude than
a “Ricki Lake” guest.

For voters, pundits, politicians and
smaimy columnists like me, the problem
remains the same: no one wants to
admit they may be wrong.

Well I’ll be the first columnist to go
on record and admit that I don’t know
a damn thing about anything. I am no
smarter than anyone else, with the
possible exceptions of Bill Belamy, the
cast of “Friends” and the state of
Tennessee.

So stop speaking of apathy as a
challenge to overcome and do your
part to improve our national mental
health by doing absolutely nothing.
It’s time we all started caring about
apathy.

Or not. Like, whatever, dude.

Get More Out of LIFE...

  

. ° Alcohol °
° EllEI'GlSB '
' lllllflllllll °

° Mental Health -

' Sﬂllllallw '

V ° SIIBSS Management '

Make a Difference at W&L

Pick up an application form and sign-up for
an interview by Thursday, November 19, at the
University Center in front of Carol Calkins’ office.
Training begins in January.

Questions?

Call the Health Education Office

at 462-4501

 

art o

Become a Trained Peer Health Educator
on Health and Wellness Issues.

f It?

 

