 

7*.

 

Washington and Lee University
VOLUME 101, NUMBER 3

Ultra ﬂing-tum Iﬂhi

 

Monday
SEPTEMBER 28, 1998

Hill Delays
New Garage
Constuction

Rejection of original

1‘ plans guarantees

continued student
parking problems

by Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

Washington and Lee students ar-
rived this fall to ﬁnd a drastically dif-
ferent parking situation in preparation
of a much-anticipated parking struc-
ture. They’re still anticipating.

Construction of the parking struc-
ture, part of W&L’s overall Master
Plan, was scheduled to begin in Octo-
ber. However, because of aesthetic rea-
sons, the University rejected the ini-
tial drawings and went to another ﬁrm.

“We found the original plans un-
acceptable; they called for a ﬁve-story
structure that was too tall for the loca-
tion and would not have ﬁt well with
the rest of the campus,” Lawrence
Broomall, Washington and Lee’s Vice
President of Finance, said.

The new plans will be presented
next week, and if accepted, design work
will begin immediately. Even accord-
ing to the best case scenario, construc-
tion will not begin until January.

The new parking structure will be
built on the backside of the campus,
where the Upper and Lower Gym park-
ing lots are currently located. It was
because construction would cause the
loss of an estimated 120 to 130 park-
ing spaces in this area, that the W&L
parking policy was regrouped.

Thejob of reorganizing was given
to Director of Security Michael Young.
“We moved commuter students to the
freshmen parking lot, and freshmen to
the Tennis Center. We also gave “B”
stickers (no daytime parking access)
to off-campus residents who live
within a half mile of campus.”

As off-campus residents scrambled
to obtain spaces, they discovered two
things; parking can be as rare off-cam-
pus as it is on-campus, and it can also
be extremely expensive. Private park-
ing lots in town are already ﬁlled, and

‘ cost on average $25 a month.

So while off-campusllresidents ﬁnd
thems§lve,s_,dealing with the cost of
finding other parking, and freshmen
find themselves resentful of the added
walk to their vehicles, the parking
structure is not being built. Hence,
Chief Young ﬁnds himself the target
of many related’ complaints.

One large Italian Cappucino maker arrived in Lexington last week. The brewing, steaming
and frothing will begin soon. Owners Dow Harris ’98 and Rich Walter ’98 hope to open
The Ruse coffeehouse by the end of October. The “brew house,” located at the corner of
Nelson and Randolph streets, will not only up the community's caffeine intake, it will serve
as a forum for all local arts. The Ruse will feature bands, poetry readings and anything else
the community wants to bring to it. VMI rats helped Harris and Walter (pictured third and
fourth from left, respectively) with the restoration Sunday.

 

Photo by Christie Pillips/Photo Editor

“Administration gave me orders to
plan for a certain situation and that’s
what I did,” Young said. “Even though
construction has been delayed, I don’t
see how we could reverse the policy
without causing a lot of confusion.”

And there still remains the confu-
sion of red tape to go through. “City
Council approved the Master Plan,

“which basicattysaid that there were a

number of things (i.e. sorority hous-
ing, pedestrian bridge, parking struc-
ture) that we’d like to implement over
the next few years,” Broomall said.
“However, as we get speciﬁc plans,
we still have to go back to get indi-
vidual approval.”

With construction now slated to
begin in January, W&L students are
learning to accept the present difﬁcul-
ties while looking forward to the ben-
eﬁts the parking structure will bring.
And the waitjust might be worth it.

“The original plan included be-
tween 550 and 600 spots,” Chief Young
said. “The newest design will hold up-
wards of 700 and will virtually allevi-
ate all campus parking problems.
We’re anxious to get going on it,”
Broomall said.

Co-Ed Cheerleaders Fail
to Cheer VMI to Victory

by Jennifer Agiesta

S TA FF WRITER

Virginia Military Institute’s football
game last Saturday contained all the
usual pomp of a college game, with one
minor change: the Keydet cheerleaders,

‘ male and female, all had crew cuts.

For the ﬁrst time, VMI has a co-ed
cheerleading squad composed entirely
of VMI cadets. Female cadets replaced
the Mary Baldwin students who had
been cheering with male VMI cadets
for several years. Only one female
cheerleader is an upperclassman.
Three male rats also participate, and
the Keydet Kangaroo is a female rat.
Last year’s mascot was a rat, and he
went on to cheer out of costume for
basketball season. However, his tran-
sition to cheerleader was not met with
the ﬁerce opposition that this rat domi-
nated squad is ﬁnding.

I This new all-cadet squad caused
some upperclassmen to fear that their
domination of rats was being threat-
ened with rats on the ﬁeld telling them
when to cheer. They took this com-
plaint so far as to petition the adminis-
tration for the removal of the rats from
the squad. A sophomore cadet, who
wished to remain anonymous, said,
‘‘It’s ridiculous that they fought so
hard to go to military schooljust to be
cheerleaders.”

However, the squad has the support
of the administration, and senior squad
captain Randy Eads said the petition-
ers are “basically wasting paper.”

According to Captain Julia Fultz,
assistant director of Cadet Affairs, the
petition was initiated by several
upperclass female cadets.

“These students participated in
many clubs and intercollegiate sports
last year, and they need to look in their
own backyards before they start
throwing stones,” Fultz said.

Cheerleading is considered a club,
and rats are allowed to participate in
clubs, provided that they attend the
Rat Challenge at least twice a week.
The cheerleaders do attend the Rat
Challenge, and according to Com-
mander John Riester, faculty advisor
for the squad, they are facing tougher
challenges than other rats.

“I am concerned about the heat
they’ll take. [The upperclassmen]

'don’t make the baseball players

throw pitches or make the track stars
run around the barracks, but they
make cheerleaders do a cheer,”
Riester said.

Despite these setbacks, the
cheerleaders have gone ahead with
the season as usual, hoping to gain
a bid to national competition. They
made an impressive showing at Uni-
versal Cheerleading Association
camp in Myrtle Beach, SC. If se-
lected to attend UCA nationals,
they would compete with top-notch
squads such as UNC, South Caro-
lina and Kentucky.

Said Riester, “We do have our own
women now, why should we use
women from other schools?”

Habitat for Humanity Raises
Funds for Project Horizon

by Heather McDonald

STAFF VVRITER

It is three weeks into the term, and
most students are learning the ﬁne
art of procrastination. However, the
volunteer organization Habitat for
Humanity has done everything but
procrastinate. Habitat has already
had two 1arge—scale fund-raisers in
order to support their current project.

W&L’s chapter of Habitat, in con-
junction with that of VMI, is attempt-
ing to raise $80,000 for a shelter spon-
sored by Project Horizon. This shel-
ter will offer longer-term housing and
counseling to the victims whom
Project Horizon is assisting. Project
Horizon is a local volunteer organiza-
tion dedicated to assisting victims of
sexual assault and domestic violence.

The construction will begin early
in the upcoming winter term. The Na-
tional Timber Framers Guild will be
laying the foundation and setting the
frame for the shelter. The house will
be constructed entirely of wood
beams joined by pegs, so that there is
no need for nails. The NTFG has as-
sisted other Habitat projects in other
regions in the past.

So far, Habitat has raised $35,000.

Two W&L grads, now at the Law
School, are assisting Habitat with ob-
taining grants to help increase fund-

1 ing. Habitat is looking for large fund

raising ideas for future projects.

The Gershwin Concert, held on
Sept. 22 in the Lenfest Center, raised
about $1,600. Prior to that was the
rafﬂe for President John Elrod’s park-
ing space. While returns are not yet in
from the rafﬂe, it is estimated that over
400 students bought tickets. Sopho-
more Juliet Bickford won the prized
spot, but not without an apparent ﬁght.

“I think Wes Armstrong bought
something like $150 worth oftickets,”
said David Sugerman, president of
W&L’s chapter of Habitat.

Habitat’s other, smaller—scale
projects include houses in Glasgow,
VA and landscaping buildings in Lex-
ington built in previous years. In
the past two years, two houses have
been built by Habitat volunteers on
High Street.

Anyone who is interested in Habi-
tat should call the Habitat office at
462-4254, or look for announcements
early in the week on the Campus No-
tices e-mail. Habitat goes to sites
on Saturdays from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m.
and meets at the University Center.

Photo by Christie Phillips/Photo Editor

From his perch on the ladder, Peter Dodge admires the
progress ‘(Tn Tast year’s Habitat for Humanity project.

Game Room
Plan Rejected

Lexington Police Department
pressures Planning Commision to
reject addition South Philly Phats

by Ezster Pados

STAFF WRITER

The Lexington Planning Commis-
sion dismissed a proposed game room
at its last meeting, due in part to resis-
tance from the Lexington Police De-
partment.

At a public hearing, John Wayne
Rife, owner of South Philly Phats at
107 N. Main St., requested permission
for the operation of a game room, fur-
nished with four pool tables, ﬁve to
six video games and ajukebox, in the
same building as his restaurant. The
room would have accommodated 50
to 70 people at a time.

For months, the Lexington Police
Department has opposed the proposal
for fear of attracting criminal activity.
Lt. Steve Crowder of the LPD said the
building’s location is unsuitable for
Rife’s business, due to insufﬁcient
lighting and recent criminal activity.

“Just last year, we had one shoot-
ing, and at least one stabbing in the
alleyway there,” Crowder said. “Fur-
thermore, I’ve prepared a list of com-
plaints over the past year, and we’ve
had in excess of a hundred calls from
that area,” Crowder explained.

Despite Rife’s willingness to meet
the Commission’s conditions, includ-
ing installing lights and video cameras
to prevent criminal activity, Crowder
believes that these precautions will
not solve the issue. In fact they will
only “light up the problem.” He said
that he will never be convinced that
the game room will work at that spe-
ciﬁc location.

In reaction to Crowder’s opposition
to his proposal, Rife attempted to con-
vince the police department and the
Planning Commission of his ability to
control violence with “No Smoking”
signs, no alcohol service and bounc-
ers at the door. “There is only one way
in, and one way out,” Rife said, “I am
not going to tolerate smoking, drugs
or any trouble at all.”

Furthermore, Rife said that he does
not understand the core of the prob-

lem. “Stop-In is right there,” Rife said,
“There is no danger there. Police men
monitor the area twenty four hours a
day. People don’t get killed at Stop-
In.”

Crowder said that he is not ques-
tioning Rife’s ability to run a success-
ful business inside the room. Instead
he’s concerned about the residents’
safety, and the possible increase in
criminal activity in the area. “It will
turn into a local hang-out,” Crowder
said. “John Rife can control what goes
on inside. But the people, locals and
students, will pour out onto the
streets. He’s no longer responsible,
we are!”

Many students and local youth feel
that Lexington lacks a place for them to
hang-out. Sharks, a similar recreation

room, closed last year. The Staircase Bar I

& Grill also recently closed. This virtu-
ally leaves the Palms and the State
Movie Theater as the only alternatives
to the fraternity parties.

“I think most people need and want
a new social scene, a new social activ-
ity,” junior Andrew Seo said. “I think
the police are just too sensitive to so-
cial issues.” Seo feels that given the
scarcity of such businesses in Lexing-
ton, it would be easy for the police to
search and monitor the business.

“Police should be concerned with
the alley and the surrounding area, not
the game-room,” said Sonia Hall, ajun-
ior. She, along with many other stu-
dents, would be very happy to see an
addition to the Lexington social scene.

Rife sympathizes with students.
“It’s a shame that there’s nothing in
Lexington,” he said. He feels that by
opening the game room, he would help
out in a small way.

The list of complaints gathered by
Crowder and Zoning administrator Bill
Blatter’s list of conditions incorpo-
rated in the conditional use permit
were presented to the Commission
September 24. The Commission will
pass their decision on to City Council
for the ﬁnal decision, but Pife said,
“It’s virtually hopeless.”

Co-Op Manager Don Burch
Retires After 19 Years

by Christian Vanderbrouk

STAFF WRITER

Whether serving/freshmen looking
for a little variety or bleaiy eyed se-
niors seeking a respite from arduous
exam preparations, Don Burch has
been a Washington and Lee mainstay
for as long as many can remember.

Thus, it was no surprise that when
Burch retired Tuesday after 19 years
of faithful service, his friends and co-
workers gathered for cake and lemon-
ade in the Co-op to exchange memo-
ries and to say goodbye. Those who
attended the party voiced strikingly
similar impressions of Burch.

“He is a real sweet man and ex-
tremely loyal to Washington and Lee,”
said Snack Bar assistant manager Judy
Sensabaugh.

Nuwassa Smith, a food service as-
sociate in the Snack Bar, said that Burch
was “a very caring person about
people he worked with.”

Faye Silvea of the Co-op also spoke

fondly of Burch. “He was a very good
man. He was nice working for and we
miss him a lot.”

Says Burch, “I really enjoyed my
association with Washington and Lee.
I’m gonna miss all those people.”

A committed family man, with two
children and two grandchildren, Don
Burch was no stranger to food service
and retail before he came to Washing-
ton and Lee. Growing up in Buena
Vista, Burch began work at the family
grocery store, Burch Brothers, at age
9. He continued working in the family
store through high school and, after a
few other jobs, joined the Washing-
ton and Lee family in 1979. Burch be-
gan his work in the Evans Dining Hall,
where he remained for 11 years, be-
fore taking over as Snack Bar manager,
where he had sewed since.

Speaking from his home in Buena
Vista, Burch spoke about his future
plans. Indeed, he shows no signs of
resting. “l’ve gotta be active,” says
Burch. “I’m going to try to stay in the
business world.”

Ellie ﬁling-tum lﬂhi
September 28th, 1998
OPINION:

dent, letters, quote of the week

W&LiFE:
Bridge, 250th bulletin

J’ SPORTS:

Homecoming Preview

Justice for student athletes, challenge ﬁom Alumni Presi-

Seniors and their futures, University Scholars, Natural

Football ﬁnally victorious, men’s and women’s soccer,
volleyball, rugby and ﬁeld hockey

PAGE 2

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

PAGE 7

 

iOp'.nion
Edi orial

SEPTEMBER 28, 1998

PAGE 2

Student athletes
deserve more credit

To fulﬁll the goal of administering a liberal arts education,
this university forces us to participate in ﬁve trimesters of physi-
cal education. Many students curse this policy, arguing that as
mature students, we can make decisions about exercise without
being forced. Nevertheless, it cannot be denied that for the ma-
jority of us, this policy is beneﬁcial. For varsity athletes, on
the other hand, the PE. requirement is ridiculous.

If the goal of tile P.E. requirement is to encourage students to

participate in sports, varsity athletes do not need it. If the goal of
the P.E. requirement is to teach students general sports skills,
varsity athletes do not need it. And if tlle goal of the P.E. require-
ment is to increase a student’s general ﬁtness, varsity athletes
deﬁnitely do not need it. They have already voluntarily partici-
pated in their sports, have developed the skills to be the best in
the school at their sports and have maintained exceptional physi-
cal shape. This school does not offer athletic scholarships or any
other serious incentives to participate in sports. Besides limited
fan support and a fuzzy varsity letter, athletes at Washington and
Lee do not get the slightest bit of compensation. They deserve
some.

Each trimester, every P.E. class meets for a total of about 24
total hours: one hour, twice a week, for twelve weeks (spring
term: double the hours for six weeks). A varsity athlete, regard-
less of the team, participates in 24 hours of sport in less than two
weeks, while working inﬁnitely harder than any PE. partici-
pant. After about nine weeks, our varsity athletes have com-
pleted the hour equivalent of the entire P.E. requirement. Why
should they have to do more? The administration should change
the P.E. policy to exempt students who have earned at least one
varsity letter from any sport. Even if a student quits after a year,
he or she has put in more time than the entire P.E. requirement
and should not have to take any more P.E. classes.

All week, our athletes bust their tails at practice. On week-
ends, their free time is replaced by long bus rides arld intercolle-
giate competitions, or more practice. Varsity athletes work harder
during the season than any P.E. participant could ever dream of.
Varsity teams have a pre-season, a regular season, and a post-
season, all of which involve vigorous running and lifting pro-
grams. Varsity athletes constantly try to improve their skills and
conditioning so that theirteam, which represents this university,
can win. And when they do win, the entire student body feels
immense pride for our athletes. But what acknowledgment, be-

yond pride, do they get? Two measlypcredits and the burden of ,

having to take three more _P.E. classes to graduate; 

_ The time has come for the administration to be reasonable.
For the study time they lose, for the social time they give up, and
for the continual commitment they give to their teams and this
university, Washington and Lee athletes deserve full recogni-
tion for their eﬁorts: the administration should exempt tllem from
the P.E. requirement.

 

   
  
 
  

  

Dear Editor,

It has come to my attention that I am not the only one
ﬁustrated with W&L’s current policies on sexual assault.
Now I’d like to give everyone a chance to do something
about it. Please read the following proposal and get back to
me with your ideas and opinions. If you think I’m right on
track, let me know and come sign a copy of the proposal. (1
hope to present it to the Student Affairs Committee later this
year.) If you think I’m way off base, let me know that too.

The reforms I’d like to see are pretty simple. As it stands

up, the penalty is seldom strict enough. ,   , I .
SURVIVORS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT: In order to
make the system better, I would really appreciate it ify

would contact me with your accounts of you experiences

, t0:COIlta_Ct_\l1_1e anonymously you may do so through;

    
  
     
    
      
 
      
  

 For Washington and Lee University to  
aj . port to an environment that will foster healthy relatiorislljps
 andend the sexually violent culture, as beﬁts an 

that ’des itselfon its commitment to honor. _ ,

Sexual Asault Education I .. V , P y 
_  [As it now stands, there  little sexual assault ' 
‘ tion for students. The program that now exists is 

is not continued for upperclasnnen. Many womm have no
their options for support or prosecution. Likewise, few men

_ achieve apro-active stance against sexual assault wevrecorng
* mendthe following: A  ’ 

rem system ofeducating students by halls has deﬁnite merit.
Students feel more corrlfortable to ask questions in small

groups, and there are fewer distractions. _

. withthe SFHB. Itwillbe entirely conﬁdential. iryohpgerei.

  

 
   

  
  

in scope. The tra.ining occurs early in the ties}: mm .-:i;‘;i
when the students aretoo overwhelmed to absorb  s

   
   
  
    
   

idea what to do ifthey have been raped They do notl/criow ’
P * know exactly what constitutes rape or sexual  Such‘.
antenvironment is unfair to men iandvwoinen.,Iritt)‘ir?ijl,e4r:;to: \

‘f Continue educating studerlts in srrlall groups.  p p , p
* Provideauial  sphere thatis less hostile fora victim

* Show the excellent video that interviewed students who
have been raped on this campus and was produced by
Washington and Lee students.

* Give students handouts listing helpful contacts should
assault occur. « ' , ~

* Clarify what to do when assault occurs.

"‘ Clarify thejudicial process at Washington and Lee and any
appeal process. 

* Acknowledge the student’s option to go to local legal

no one knows what to do in the event of sexual assault. Few’ 7   r 4f  ‘ ’
people know why they need to seek medical attention and I“

few people know howtoprosecute. When acharge  j"

*i   education on sexual assault for every

sclass; . ., . i. .
 is  professionals at Project Horizon for
 4   and to train the educators.

“ .

  
     

 the university for conﬁding in la

, . on every bulletin board on campus. .
glifto know who is representing them and

 

itohold thorn  foralldecisions made. Whiletheseo
i’’‘:)listsare‘sup'posed;tb:bepostedinmoreﬂianonelocatiorhno “ p
  e ‘ -  P -

sexual assault’ prosecution at

 

who has  severelyuaumatized. The trial should
   occurred ﬁnding the most

_ appropriate punishment for the offender. It  I
necessary to make victims and witnesses feel like

‘ effect of condoning rape. This  must realize i’? ' ~

/ if *.Clarify the legalbasisforgap

u e   j, I. im1tIdepostingﬁ19f§?ﬁTstIdér’f$namesh0ﬁldrt
frierid2ﬂa,orxftlIeuja1;*5Ilrerearelnarly‘changes.wewouldliketo , i

, ,   Comnritree,' the f 2
’ p _-  to {and the Student-Faculty Hearirlg,_: I

involved‘ir1n‘lals"wiﬂlareplacernerltfor .i . I,
_  Provide a confidential,   if

. , .  ._ ...willhe,ahleto
‘/  Rernindﬂle students involved oftheir  ,, j ‘
 at«Pi°Je¢i i P "~ I
T Horizon,?or cal1theProjectHorizonhotline. T ' . , "

  

“sluts” to do this. In a court of law, the sexual  «ﬁt. 
of avictim or  inadrnissible. This  ‘; (W
should be in a Student-Faculty Hearing  P‘ j N S?
* Provide the members of the Student-Faculty  ~
Boardwith thorough trainingineveryaspectofsexual‘,

 

assault. Inadditiontotrainingonthelegaldefinitions  , ji.

of rape, the members should receive training inthe T V
lraumatllatresultsfrornsexualassaultarldtypical ,
ernotionalresponsesofvictims. .. T p   T V ,
* Implement stricter punishments for those convicted. ;
of sexual assault The punishrnerlts givenrnust beta;
deterrent to future offenses. Light punishments have the j

and acknowledge that all assault,   
llighlydishonorable.-3“ , .  1:. ’  g ,
 zlna ‘

 

emrie;‘.;isiesiossooesa.r.:. . s f 
 ab9“.“h°‘$’¢1d°I1i-Fae,-are  A. i P
 
    
.. d¢nt:Fs9ﬁ1t>?t1¢ariiisB°aIﬁ9ase.havé‘. A
’n1i1T<isuspet1si0i1foramrItine=iwoman,ii

send.

coleiarsdaodyicclmsvzul

Letter to 1heRmg-tum Phz: Proposal for change inhandling sexual  t 

 

   
  
  
   
   
 
  

      
        
 
 

  
 
   
  

 

Flag-burning amendment threatens liberty

One of my major issues above all others is that of per-
sonal freedom. In fact, my senior quote dealt with that
issue: “Above all, freedom is the most

 

important thing,_’’ Ilam a ﬁrm believer in U -3,
o the First A-mendment and all of its aspects, 
from what we wear, to what church we til,‘ 
attend, to what we say.  -—Tara

A prime example ofa challenge to this
freedom today is the proposed tlag—burning amendment
to the Constitution. Ifpassed, this amendment would make
burning the American flag a form of protest illegal. This

-Blows Against

To the Washington and Lee student body:

‘ It is my pleasure to serve as President of the Wash-
» ington and Lee University Alumni Association for the
 o 1 I998-99 academic year. In that role, I am happy to
j V » inforrn you that unknown to the vast majority of you,
 T each of you, undergraduate and law students alike,
‘ has gained membership in a very special organiza-
, tion —- the Washington and Lee Alumni Association.
, First organized in 1840, the Alumni Association has
5, more than 20,000 active alumni scattered all over the
_ country and the globe.

All good things come to an end, and one day all
. too soon you will leave Lexington. The primary func-
‘ V» tion of the W&L Alumni Association is to perpetuate
V I the W&L experience long after you have departed
o ' Lexington. To facilitate this, there are 82 alumni chap-
. ters throughout the United States and United King-
dom, each of which will welcome you with open arms.
Additionally, the Alurrmi College and Alumni Travel
, Abroad, programs afford wonderful continuing edu-
: . cation opportunities to alumni and friends. The Alumni
Association Board of Directors, a group of 24 dedi-
/ cated alumni, works very hard to maximize the effec-
-  tiveness of the alumni chapter network and all alumni

programs. _
Many of you have beneﬁted already from the gen-
erosity of our alumni. Some of you have been inter-
. viewed by alumni; others have been to alumni chap-
ter events hosted in honor of new and returning stu-

 A letter to the student body

1 Alumni Association President challenges students T

dents; and others have gained valuable experience and '
career insights while interning for alumni. You, too,
can serve future generations of W&L students by be-
coming involved with your local alumni chapters,
serving as class agents, offering career assistance and
by recruiting students for W&L. These volunteer op-
portunities will allow you to help make W&L a stron-
ger institution and at the same time network and make
important contacts that can be useful for you in the
future. The reason that W&L is as it is today lies in
the fact that previous generations of alumni have given
of their time and talent to make it so. We hope that
you will be part of this tradition of service and help
make W&L even stronger in the next millennium.

As improbable as it seems to you today as you
stress over the next exam or project, one day soon
your student days will be behind you, and you, too,
will be a member of the alumni ranks fondly remi-
niscing on your days in Lexington. Like most of us,
you will ﬁnd that you never really leave W&L, but,
rather, you will return often in your mind’s eye. I hope
that your return trips, both visual and actual, will be
as pleasant and as rewarding as mine are. Best of luck
to all of you for the duration of your W&L career,
and I encourage you to take advantage of the strength
of the W&L Alumni Association.

Sincerely,
E. Phifer Helms ’74
Charlotte, NC

Q

':.t T.
V 3
I‘ 2 ,...l- :2 -“N
 ‘I ‘ “c
w«_/ ‘~./’va..“\..,»’ an 44.. 

    

“Yes. I think it’s a great opportunity to
bring together all the sororities and get
the message out that sororities are fun.”

—Hillary Bryant ’0l

  

“I love it because it’s naaaaaaash.”

—Sophie Lambrou ’0l

     

lieah, shwing clueless freshmen
boys my ‘cool blacklight’ is
deﬁnitely one of the biggest perks.”

—Vanessa Chen ’0l

‘seems like the ultimate irony: making the restriction of a
basic right to expression an offense against the very docu-
ment that grants that right.

People justify the existence, of a ﬂag-

“The ﬂag is a symbol of our country.”
Well, let’s think about that for a second.
What ideals does that embody? I believe
our country was founded on the beliefthat “life, liberty
and the pursuit of happiness” are inherent to us as hu-
mans. So thejustiﬁcation for this amendment is that by

restricting our right to expression, we’re protecting a sym-

bol of our rights? Hmm. That’s interesting.

This principle of freedom of expression can be taken a
step further. In my opinion, the right to freedom of ex-
pression includesthe right to express yourself through
your choice of clothing. So along this rationale, forcing
public school students to wear uniforms is a prime viola-
tion ofthis principle.

Last year, my school system made unifomls manda-
tory. The reasoning supplied by the school board where
I’m from was that uniforms would prevent gang violence

based on what
C C people were wear-
ing, and would
make the schools
safer. I’m sorry,
but if they think
that changing the
9 7 dress code will au-
tomatically stop
school violence,
they’re more naive than I thought. In fact, the uniform
policy seemed to exacerbate the problem in many schools.
The solution to problems like school violence starts so
far removed from what the students are wearing, but that’s
another rant. Sufﬁce it to say that, besides being like
putting a Band-Aid on an artery wound, uniforms restrict
students’ basic right to expression through their style of
dress. They may be kids, but they have rights under the
Constitution just like lawmakers.

Society today is full of challenges to our basic civil
liberties. It seems our rights are threatened every day by
our lawmakers. It seems that the very people we’ve en-
trusted to protect our rights have lost sight of their pur-
pose. Ifthis trend continues, we may ﬁnd ourselves in a
position where even the right to do something like this
has been severely limited. Just remember that no matter
what happens, we have the right to express ourselves, and
any challenge to that is a sinister thing indeed.

 

Above all, freedom
is the most important
thing.

 

Do you lik§_liing igthe Delt use? _

3- as I  .
“Yeah, because my
roommate’s so damn cool.”

—Amy Calce ’0l
(roommate: Vanessa Chen)

burning amendment by saying things like, ,

    

  uote of the week:

Not to compare this
school to Hitler, but he
always said that if you
want people to believe
a lie, all you have to do

is make it big.

—— Jeremy Hile-Hoffer on his belief
that W&L isn’t really 250 years old

@112 ilting-tum lﬁlli

Executive Editor: Tarah Grant
Hollister Hovey
Copy Editors Sarah Meldrum
Meredith Mlynar
News Editors Polly Doig
John Stewart
w&Iife Editors Ginger Phillips

Erica Prosser
Stephen Pcsce
Frances Groberg
Brendan Harrington
Kevin McManemin

Opinion & Editorial Editor
Sports Editors

Last Word Editor

Photo Editor Mike Crittenden
Christie Phillips
Online Editor Tom Wadlow

Layout Assistant Stephanie Bianco

John Costello
Jason Williams

Advertising Manager
Managing Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington. VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor and Business Manager, but
The Ring—Ium Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in
the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by
noon on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters. columns and “Talkback” do
not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial
Board. Advertising does not reflect the opinions of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

JAMES G. Lsvnueu l_laRAFtV
WASli|:lG::'O[\rl £1‘ LEE LE‘-lli/_EFlSlTY
L IT“ 30

208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington. VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wIu.edu

 1998

J}

it

 

F

5

1-

 

SEPTEMBER 28, 1998

&L1EE

PAGE 3

Class of 1999

Prepares for

Life Beyond the Colonnade

by Ginger Phillips

F EA TURES EDITOR

For most of us, September 10 signiﬁed the beginning
of another academic year here at Washington and Lee
University. For others, however, thatdate meant the be-
ginning of their last year here among the white columns
and green grass.

These students are the Class of 1999, the last graduat-
ing class of this millenium and the one lucky enough to
receive those special 250"‘ anniversary class rings. De-
spite its unique characteristics, this year’s W&L se-
nior class must face some of the same challenges as
generations of other seniors.

The mere fact of being part of the next graduating class
has numerous and often frightening implications. This
means no more of the security that college life provides.
It’s almost time to step into the real world and to apply
all of that knowledge that you’ve been saving up for
the last four years.

“it’s just generally strange to be a ‘senior’ all of a
sudden. Everyone here is either in my class or younger
than me. I’m supposed to be the old, jaded, wise one
now,” senior Cliff Woolley said. “I suppose that in a way
I am, but still, the word ‘senior’ just has a ring of ﬁnality
to it.”

Seniors have to deal with the sometimes stressful tasks
of ﬁnding ajob, getting into graduate school, ﬁnding a
new place to live and separating from and leaving behind
[many of their W&L friends. These objectives seem to be
daunting and even overwhelming, but every senior must

make decisions like these. Surprisingly, many seniors are '

taking their post—graduation worries in stride.

“I have no worries. I just thank God that it all works
out,” senior Nadiyah Howard said. “I usually get really
worked up about things until I remember I have very little
control over them ultimately, so I leave them to God and it
all works out.”

Most seniors have speciﬁc goals that they would like
to achieve after graduation, whether they are to continue
their education, to establish themselves in an occupation
or to get married and settle down. Whatever their goals
may be, seniors must carefully plan the steps that they
take this year to make those dreams become realities.

As everyone who survived the college application pro-
cess knows; applying for anything takes a lot of time and

' effort. Many graduate school applications also require

)-

1

Q

general entrance exam test scores. Take a huge leap past
the SAT and the ACT, and you ﬁnd the LSAT, the MCAT,
and the GRE. Often these exams are graded on a curve, so
senior test takers must not only worry about their own
scores, but those of everyone else too.

While applying to grad school is a tough process, ac-
tualiy convincing someone to pay you - and pay you well
- for the wide array of talents that you learned at W&L
may be even harder. To the pleasure of the faculty and
administration, however, many graduating students
feel well-prepared to face that challenge.

“Life here is deﬁnitely sheltered,” Woolley said, “but
it’s a good education in a good community, so I’d say that
it has prepared me well.”

_ 4-itie Phlli/o o E n}
The Red House is the meeting place of the
University Scholars. One perk of the pro- .

gram is the use of the Red House for
studying, meeting, cooking or just relaxing.

 Amateurrphotographerslit  
  G0tIan.amazing“orfunny   
- photothatneedstobe.r-   
-:   A .S.hared?.  H . M L, 1.,
[3 .Submit it to «theRing-tuimj Phi, '
 hotofof the Week” Contest!” '
 ".Yo_un*light.see it on the ifrontr _
 _,,g.',,,.'pa,g,e! Contact The Phi at - ’

  

 462-4060 for more'iqnf,o.. _

Others, like Howard, have a slightly different opinion.

“I guess the Poverty Program did prepare me for the real‘

world, and there have been others that gave me a glimpse
of it,” she said. “I could not honestly say, however, that my
total experience at W&L was one that prepared me for the
real world.”

Making a career decision is a huge responsibility, so
it is important to make theright choice. Some seniors
know exactly what they want to do when they gradu-
ate, and others want to take a little time off to decide
where they want to go on the occupational highway.

“I plan to take a few years off before going to grad
school. During that time I plan to go to N-Street Village to
work,” Howard said. “I really enjoyed working there last
summer, and if all my prayers are answered I’ll be able to
return for a couple of years until I ﬁgure out what I want to
focus on in grad school.”

Woolley hopes to find a temporary job in the Lexington
area for the year after graduation.

“I will probably get a job here in Lexington or down in
Roanoke, as my fiance Holly is a year behind me,” he said.
“I’m very interested in multimedia and television, so I might
try for a job at a TV station in Roanoke if I don’t ﬁnd
anything in town.”

Whatever their worries about the future, the seniors
can rely on a multitude of faculty and career development
coordinators to help them throughout their senior year. As
they prepare to be successful in the so-called real world,
the Class of 1999 will leave its imprint on the University, and
they will take a piece of the University with them as they
strive towards success and happiness in the future.

Top
10
LOCATIONS

The Class of 1999 is preparing to join
the ranks of W&L alumni. Here is a
look at the most popular professions
among preceding generations of
graduates and where they chose to
live after Lexington.
—Data was compiled from Alumni
Association membership records.

T 01>
10
OCCUPATIONS

See a Natural Wonder Near Lex

Staying on campus on the weekends may be fine, but
getting away and having fun can be much better. So here ’s a
guide to interesting destinations no more than ’a few hours
away from good old Lex. This week: We ’re of to Natural Bridge.

Just a stone’s throw south of Lex-
ington is one of the Seven Natural
Wonders of the World: Natural Bridge.
This natural wonder has been a tour-
ist draw for centuries, as the hype
around the stone formation will indi-
cate. But this source of local pride
might be worth a visit if you have
some free time and want to spend it
learning new things in a local setting.

Historically, the bridge itself has had
a colorful existence. Native Americans
saw it as sacred, while George Wash-
ington (yes, of Washington and Lee
fame) sun/eyed it. Thomas Jefferson
owned the property at one time, as well.

Today, the area has been modem-
ized with a wax museum and factory tour, a gift shop, an inn
and conference center, outdoor shows and trails for hiking
buffs. Visitors can also tour the caverns, where the tempera-
ture is a constant 54 degrees Fahrenheit. At night, the com-
plex features “The Drama of Creation,” a light and sound

 

show depicting the creation of the world.

“It was a really interesting show, and the lights were
amazing,” said senior Bill Overbaugh. “It was nice to see
how the story of Genesis related to the whole experience.”

A word to the wise about the wax mu-
seum: wax ﬁgures are one thing. If you
take the factory tour, though, you might
learn more about wax people than you
cared to know. The tour features dem-
onstrations on casting and molding
heads, trimming the wax ﬂesh, assembling

A tour of this facility is included free with
the cost of the wax museum ticket.

And speaking of cost, here are the
rates for Natural Bridge attractions. The
best value is the package, which includes
tickets to all the attractions and costs $15
for adults and $7.50 for children. If you
want to see just one attraction, each one
is individually priced at $8 for adults.

To get to Natural Bridge, you can take Route 11 south
until you see the signs, or you can take Interstate 81 south
to exits 180 or 175 and follow the signs. For more informa-

tion or reservations, call 1-800-533-1410.
—— compiled from staﬂ reports

Pennsylvania

North Carolina
7.2%

New York
7.9%

the characters and implanting theleyes.‘

New Jersey
California 43%
5.5% ‘

_5.7%

 

1

Georgia
84%

Florida
8.8%

Accounting _
3.4% Engineers

Insurance 25%
4.0%
Arts

4.2% ‘\

Journalism
4.7%

Real Estate

5.3%

Physicians
7.9% ‘

Education
9.0%

 

In celebration of Washington
and Lee University ’s
bicenquinquagenaty, the 250"’
Nostalgia sub-committee will
attempt to educate the university

storied past. Throughout the year,

Bicenquinquagenary Bulletin,
some of them serious and some of
them, well. . . not so serious. So

Before the age of Homecoming
banners, W&L actually used to

the 1950s, the annual Homecom-
ing festivities were highlighted
by a late night torch parade
through the streets of Lexington
in which the students were
required to wear their pajamas.

University Scholars Are Out There  Everywhere

by Erica Prosser
F EA TURES EDITOR

You may not notice them, but they’re there. They
look just like everyone else. Maybe one of them is the
woman who sits next to you in chemistry. Maybe that guy
you just walked past on the Colonnade is one. They may
not be obvious, but they’re everywhere.

They are the University Scholars.

Okay, so it isn’t as glamorous an organization as the
CIA. But the University Scholars program is one of the
most interesting and least under-
stood opportunities at Washing-
ton and Lee University.

Just what is this program? , 
How does one join? What does it »  )
entail? And what does the future  ‘ :,,¥,,,_(v
hold for the University Scholars  t  «-«ab
organization? lire“ ‘ “ M“

University Scholars is a pro-  
gram designed by the faculty to
challenge further and interact with students. Junior Roshni
Nirody, the group’s president, suggested that the strength
of the program lies in the academic possibilities it pro-
vides students.

“I think it is important that motivated students realize
that the program can provide them with the opportunity
to explore their education from a different perspective,”
she said. “Essentially, the program allows students to cre-
ate their own courses, pursue independent work and have
more interaction with professors.” S

The requirements for graduating as a University
Scholar are simple: maintain a 3.25 GPA and complete three
seminars, a reading course and an honors thesis. The fall
seminar is on a social science topic, the winter seminar is
on natural science and the spring class covers the hu-
manities. (And no fair taking three natural science classes
in a row; Scholars must take one of each of the seminars.)
So at ﬁrst glance, the program seems to be an opportunity
to do more work. But there’s more to the University Schol-
ars program than can immediately be seen.

The seminars cover an interdepartmental range of top-
ics; some past examples of classes include “The evolu-
tion of evolution,” “Botany for Poets” and “Dante and
Machiavelli: Giants of the Renaissance.” In their spare

time, Scholars host the State of the Discipline lectures and
other guest speakers each year. The Red House, the home
of the East Asian Studies program, also houses the fully-
equipped University Scholars area in which members of
the group can study, hold meetings or cook. And this year,
the Scholars plan to become even more visible with a news-
letter, a wider range of class offerings and a varied array of
visiting speakers.

Junior Meredith Welch, a Scholar, applied to the pro-
gram because of what it offered.

“I was intrigued by the idea of getting to take very
specialized seminars with other students who really wanted
to be there,” she said.

Her sentiments were echoed by junior Lance Clack,
another Scholar.

“I thought it would be a good opportunity to take
really good classes in areas where I didn’t know very
much, and thereby further myself intellectually,” he said.

Continuing practically, he said, “I also thought it would A

look good when I applied to grad school.”

Who teaches the seminars? W&L faculty members,

of course. Scholars can approach professors with ideas,
or professors can suggest topics. Mike Smitka, associate
professor of economics, is teaching the current social sci-
ence seminar, a class that focuses on industrial revolutions.
He has taught one Scholars class before, and although the

classes mean more work forhirn, he thinksthe work is worth it.
“[The University Scholars classes] are the most in-
tense teaching experience I’ve had here,” he said. “Part
may be that students are there because they want to be.
But they also take it seriously, and enjoy thrashing out
ideas.” The ideas that the students put forth make Smitka

-think, as well.

“I learn a lot from the discussions,” he said.

What do the scholars like most about the program?
Welch and Clack both said that the challenge and diver-
sity of the classes and discussions are favorites. Nirody
elaborated on their choices.

“To my knowledge, there is no other organization on
campus which allows students the amount-of intellectual
freedom that University Scholars does,” she said. “Stu-
dents can take interesting classes and get credit for leam-
ing tai chi, having an informal discussion about aesthet-
ics, or arguing about the economic implications in the ﬁlm
‘Mary Poppins.”

So we know it’s a great organization, full of opportu-

. than six can be sophomores. Every program has some lee- _;

nity. From 1984 to 1996, 143 students have graduated as
University Scholars. So why has the group gone so unno-
ticed for so long?

“Apathy,” Welch said. “Though I think we have it in
a much smaller dose [than the rest of W&L], it is present.”

Nirody offered a slightly more forgiving explanation
for the group’s relative silence.

“Because the nature of the [organization] in the past
has primarily centered upon the academic features of the
program, visibility was not really an issue,” she said. ‘‘In
the last few years, Scholars have become much more ac-
tive and the quality of the program has improved.”

And the program will continue to improve. Many
Scholars have answered the call to get more involved in
the program and make the group more visible. Clack is
putting out the newsletter, while other Scholars are orga-
nizing lectures, luncheons, interviews and class sugges-

_ tions. Several members expressed hope for the future of

the program.

“I believe that with the proper leadership we will con-
tinue to add new and more interesting seminars and ﬁeld
trip opportunities,” Welch said.

Clack agreed. ‘‘I hope that the program will continue
to provide challenging interdisciplinary classes and as-
sume a role of intellectual leadership on campus,” he said.

So how does one join this promising group? Wéll,
getting into the program may_ be tough. Freshmen and
sophomores with outstanding academic records at W&L
are invited to apply in January. The group isn’tjust “smart
people,” though; invited students then go through a rig-
orous application process involving a personal statement,
letters of recommendation from faculty and interviews with

bothfaculty and Scholar committees. The object of the i3

search is to ﬁnd thoughtful people who will speak up and L"
offer new ideas in discussions without dominating the group. j
Of the 18 students chosen in this process, no more ..

way, though, and this one is no exception. Juniors who have "
completed two of the University Scholar courses with a B+

a

majority of Scholars enter the group as freshmen. ’*

Still have questions about University Scholars? Con-
tact the group’s faculty advisor, Professor John Lambeth, *

1

at ext. 8814, or contact Nirody. Or just ask that person in I’
class beside you. You never know; he or she might be a if
Scholar. r:t

 

about Washington and Lee 's 3

weekly facts will appear in the 
without ﬁtrther ado, ﬁll! fact #1 . "

have parades . . . real parades. In -.

- ..~.«-.eres»...;-s-svs....-.»7.-sz.....\x:..»..v....-r;s....;w_..-.~.. .- -. .-  — 

’.—.s.\-53.’.-‘_ -_.-..-.v~..-.-e.'.'.¢ -:»:..o-x... .

e.-’A,-_.-._-.-.y..v -‘-my .-  -;  .

x

or better in both may be considered for the program. Still, the 

1.

$5353.

 

PAGE 4

SPORTS

SEPTEMBER 28, 1998

Generals Score
First on the Road

Players sidelined with injuries last
season come up big as team puts
their first in win column 21-20

by Brendan Harrington
SPORTS EDITOR

The Generals broke into the win
column in dramatic fashion on Satur-
day aftemoon in Danville, Kentucky
as they knocked off Centre College 21-
20 in athrilliiig come-from-behind vic-
tory. Senior wide Receiver Chas
Chastain caught a 7-yard touchdown
pass from junior quarterback Christian
Batcheller with 3 :36 remaining in the
game to give the Generals their first
win of the season.

“It’s such a relief,” Batchellor said
following the victory. “Starting off0-
2 was really disappointing, but last
year we started 0-4. To get that first
win earlier this year is really nice.”

When Washington and Lee took
on Centre College last season,
Chastain was watching from the side-
lines wondering if he would ever be
able to play football again.

The previous week, he had tom the
Anterior Cruciate Ligament (ACL) in
his knee for the second time in his ca-
reer during a 34-20 loss to Guilford.
But now, one year later, Chastain is
back out on the ﬁeld, and on Saturday
afternoon he came up with the crucial
game winning touchdown.

“It’s obviously nice to have him
back out there,” Head Coach Frank
Miriello said. “He’s a big play guy
and we really missed that last year.”

Sophomore running back Marc
Watson was also watching from the side-
lines a year ago after he injured his knee
in a preseason scrimmage. But like
Chastain, Watson played a crucial role
on Saturday, rushing 19 times for ll 1
yards and one touchdown.

“Marc gets more and more conﬁ-
dence every time he touches the ball,”
Miriello said. “We knew it wouldjust
be a matter of time before he broke out
this year.”

“Chas and I have both worked re-
ally hard,” Watson commented. “To
be back out there and to help get this
ﬁrst win — it’s the greatest feeling in
the world.”

In the two losses prior to Saturday’s
victory, the Generals had problems
holding onto the football and were
giving it up more than they were tak-
ing it away. But that was not the case
against Centre, as the Generals forced
six Colonel turnovers (three fumbles,
three interceptions) and suffered only
one turnover.

“The defense came up with some
big plays in the red zone,” Miriello
said. “The defense has looked better
and better each game.”

The Generals looked like they were
in trouble early on after the Colonels
took an early 7-0 lead on a 47-yard
touchdown run by quarterback Drew
Mildren just 58 seconds into the game.
The Generals held their ground and
eventually tied the score 7-7 after
Watson ran it in from ﬁve yards out
with 2:02 left in the first quarter.

The only scoring in the second
quarter was a 29-yard ﬁeld goal by
Chris Ward which gave the Colonels a

10-7 lead. It looked as though the C010-
nels would score a touchdown right
before halftime as they had it first and
goal, but senior John McAllister
stripped the ball from Colonels run-
ning back Kevin Chapman, and sopho-
more Andy Robinson recovered the
fumble on the Generals one-yard line.

In the third quarter, Centre scored
a touchdown on their ﬁrst possession
by running the ball in from the two-
yard line to give the Colonels a 17-7
lead with 1 1 : 1 1 left in the third quarter.

The Generals struck back less
than a minute later, as Batcheller
threw a 52-yard touchdown pass to
senior tight end David Ritchey to
make the score 17-14. Ward added
another 29-yard field goal for Cen-
tre with 1:59 left in the third to make
the score 20-14 going into the final
quarter.

The Generals dominated the time of
possession category in the final quar-
ter, holding the ball for 13 of the ﬁnal 17
minutes of the game.

“It was a great victory but we can
play better,” said Miriello. “The best
is yet to come.”

Riding Team Jumps.-

   
  

B riding   ﬁnished second
if rall ’ as awarded the Re-
’ serve Chanipionsmp Trophy. W&L

competed’ against 14 (teams to earn ,

the award, and was onlyatwo points
behind defending .1998 lHSA’Na-
tional Champions Hollins‘. K’ ,
Thirty-five” students’ currently
compete on the team. I V ‘A 4
The team’s next competition

 
 
  
 

  
  
 

T — f willbethis simday atVirg

  

. in.niaT°°h ‘
',startingatl1:00a.m. ‘ V ' .

Hollister Hovey/Executive Editor

Members of the W&L and Radford rugby teams launch themselves and their
teammates skyward on Saturday in attempts to get possession of the ball.

V-ball Improves
in Maryville

by Steele Cooper

STAFF WRITER

The Generals took to the road this week on the heels of
a tremendous winning streak. Friday and Saturday Wash-
ington and Lee played in the round robin Maryville Col-
lege Invitational and posted an impressive 3-1 record for
the weekend. This brought their overall record to 1 1-2.

Friday, W&L added Westminster (3-2) and Eastern
Mennonite University (3-1) to their growing list of de-
feated opponents.

These were both big wins for the Generals.
Westminster is regionally ranked, and Eastern Menno-
nite is currently ranked first in the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference. W&L is second in ODAC rankings to
EMU, so these wins show promise for a repeat ofthe
Generals’ championship last year.

Senior Megan Snodgrass suffered a sprained ankle
early in the tournament on Friday during the match against
Eastern Mennonite. This loss for the weekend meant a
shift in the lineup for the Generals.

“Everyone picked it up and adjusted really well,”
Snodrass said, who hopes to be ready for the match at
home on Thursday against Bridgewater.

The Generals’ second loss of the season came on Sat-
urday to Thomas Moore (2-3). Thomas Moore went un-
defeated for the tournament with consistent play and a
strong attack.

“We weren’t as intense as we were the day before,”
said Freshman Ricka Hildebrand. “They attacked everyl
thing.” Saturday also brought an easy win over the host
team Maryville (3-1).

On Wednesday, W&L travelled to Randolph—Macon
Women’s College and garnered yet another easy win (3-0).
Once again, the Generals proved strong. “The Randolph-
Macon game gave us no trouble. It was deﬁnitely a good
easy win,” freshman Lee Charbonet said.

W&L will be back in the Warner Center on Tuesday for
their 6:30 match against rival Bridgewater College.
Snodgrass’s return and the home court advantage will all
be working in the Generals’ favor. “We still have a lot of
matches,” Snodgrass said, “but we feel conﬁdent that we
can beat the ODAC teams.”

Women’s Soccer Record Anther Suto  

by Frances Groberg

SPORTS EDITOR

The Generals have started the sea-
son off just about perfectly. Not only
are there no numbers in the team’s
“loss” category, but there’s another
zero in the “goals against” category.
This fact did not change on Sunday,
as the team steamrolled Greensboro
College l0-0.

“We lost our sweeper from last
year, so it was really important to us
that the defense step up,” sophomore
goalie Lauren Harris said. “We
haven’t really been challenged yet as
a defense, but we’re working hard, and
our organization is improving.”

Senior forward Karin Treese
posted her second hat trick of the sea-
son with three goals as well as an as-
sist, and freshman forward Lauren
Wendell scored the ﬁrst two goals of
her career.

This game marked the second in the
season in which Washington and Lee
netted double—ﬁgure goals. Seven dif-
ferent players scored for the Generals
and three others had assists in the rout.

Averaging 7.5 goals per game,
the offense has certainly proved it-

Hollister llovey/Executive Editor

Senior Lauren Francis passes the ball to junior Carly Nasca in the club ﬁeld hockey game
against UVA on Saturday. The Generals were defeated 5-2 and will travel to Lynchburg today.

selfmenacing. The team’s defense,
however, has also proved nearly
unfallible behind key players like jun-
ior Deirdre Coyle and senior Nicole
Johnson. W&L’s goalkeepers, Har-
ris and junior Stephanie McKnight
have been key factors in the team’s
winning equation.

What stands out amongst the sta-
tistics for the Generals is the fact that
the defense has the ability to produce
offensively as well. In the Greensboro
game alone, two defenders, Johnson
and sophomore Samantha Garbisch
added an assist and a goal, respec-
tively, to the effort.

“Our teamwork has continued to im-
prove,” Harris asserted. “Our organi-
zation is coming together, but we still
have a long way to go.”

Other goals were netted by junior for-
ward Ginny Jernigan, sophomore
midﬁelder Margaret Hunter-Tumer,

sophomore forward Amanda
McDermott, and sophomore midﬁelder
Courtney Nolan.

The team will travel to Sweet Briar
College on Thursday afternoon to meet
the Vixens at 4:30. “We’re hoping for a
good, fast-paced game,” Harris said.
“Every ODAC game means a lot.”

Christie Phillips/Photo Editor

Junior forward Ginny Jernigan dribbles circles around a player
from Greensboro College on Sunday. The Generals won 10-0.

4
,N

Men’s Soccer Back on the Ball '

by Tod Williams

STA FF WRITER

What a difference a week makes. One week ago, the
men’s soccer team failed to score and gave up three goals
to the Virginia Wesleyan Marlins. In their two games this
week, the Generals gave up only one goal and hit the back
of the net themselves ﬁve times, coming away with a tie
and a win for the week.

The Generals hit the road on Saturday, this time travel-
ing to Goucher College in Baltimore, MD. This trip proved
to be fruitful for the Generals, who posted their largest scor-
ing total ofthe year as the Generals improved to 2-1-1.

Senior forward Sam Chase’s scored ﬁrst, less than two
minutes into the contest. Senior Mikel Parker kept the trend
going, scoring in the 13th minute and again less than four
minutes later.

Sophomore midﬁelder Scott Lofranco scored in the 39th
minute, giving the General’s a 4-0 lead. Chase finished the
day’s goal—scoring phenomenon in the 5 1 st minute from 20
yards out.

Chase attributed the Generals’ potent offensive attack
to a larger ﬁeld, “which let us spread them out a lot more.”

“I was glad to see Jamie [Parker] got [a goal],” Chase
said. “We’re going to need him throughout the season."

Gopher Head Coach Troy Snyder said he chalked W&L’s
first four goals up to his team’s sub-par performance. “I
knew [W&L] had a nice senior up front, but our defense

was really just lackluster. We really could’ve prevented
[the ﬁrst four goals].”

In front of the net, W&L senior goalkeeper E. J. Murphy
did not post a save or allow a goal in the game’s ﬁrst half.
Sophomore Jordan Ginsburg took over for Murphy in the
second half, recording one save and letting in one Gopher
goal offofa penalty kick at 60:56.

Thursday, the Generals narrowly missed a chance for
their ﬁrst conference win, coming away with a 0-0 tie on
their trip to Emory & Henry College.

The Wasps, l-5-l on the year, gave the Generals their
ﬁrst no-decision since 1994, sending the Generals to 1- l -l
on the year and still without a conference win. Although
W&L outshot the Wasps 19- 1 0, E&H still managed to keep
the Generals out ofthe net.

During the last ﬁve seconds of the game, W&L had
two chances to get on the scoreboard, but the E&H goal-
keeper saved both shots. On the other end of the ﬁeld,
W&L senior goalkeeper E.J. Murphy had four saves in
the contest.

Chase called Thursday’s matchup an “interesting game.”

“The ﬁeld was small and there were a lot of fouls,” Chase
said. “It wasjust one ofthose games where the ball didn’t
fall in the net."

The Generals’ will travel to Harrisonburg on Wednes-
day to face ODAC opponent Eastern Mennonite at 4:00.
Chase said ofthe pending contest, “we need a confer-
ence win.”

P

7

 

i « N2lIn€S.:s>

_l

Jr

4

Q.

'4.

ll.

 

.1

\
l\

1

$.

t.

.4.

 

SEPTEMBER 28, 1998

PAGE 5

‘-3 ‘I  Washington and Lee
Jl\a."  \  .4  University has announced

‘ I ' l l the appointmentof 25 new
teachers to its under-
graduate faculty, includ-
ing four tenure-track ap-
pointments.

TENURE TRACK APPOINTMENTS
DENNIS GARVIS, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF MANAGEMENT ‘

Garvis earned his bachelor's and law degrees from the University of Iowa and
is currently completing a Ph.D. from Georgia State University. His ﬁeld of spe-
cialization is strategic management. He has taught as an instructor at the Univer-
sity of Missouri—KanSas City and Georgia State University.

ELIzABETH KNAPP, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF GEOLOGY

Knapp is a 1990 graduate of W&L and received her Ph.D. in environmental
sciences from the University of Virginia in 1997. She was a visiting assistant
professor at W&L last year and her teaching interests are in geochemistry and
hydrogeology.

ROBIN LEBLANC, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF POLITICS

LeBlanc earned a bachelor's in English with a minor in political science from
Berry College in 1988 and her Ph.D. in political science from the University of
Oklahoma in 1994. Her ﬁelds of specialization are comparative politics/Japan,
American politics/Congress and political theory. She served as an assistant pro-
fessor for four years at Oglethorpe University.

MATTHEW TUCHLER, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF CHEMISTRY

Tuchler eamed his bachelor's from Haverford College, his master's from the
University of Chicago and his doctorate from the University of Illinois. Since
1995, Tuchler had served as a postdoctoral research assistant at the University of
Southern California. He has also taught as a graduate fellow at the University of
Illinois.

ADDITIONAL APPOINTMENTS

JOHNNY BASSO, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF BIOLOGY

Basso received his bachelor's, master's and a doctorate in chemistry and bio-
chemistry from Concordia University. He has also taught at Concordia and held
a postdoctoral fellowship at Eastern Virginia Medical School in the department
of microbiology and immunology.
ASHER BIEMANN, INSTUCTOR OF RELIGION

Biemann earned his master's in philosophy from Karl-Franzens-Universitat in
Graz, Austria and is working towards a Ph.D. at the same institution.

JAMES CASEY, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF ECONOMICS (VISITING)

Casey is a 1991 graduate of W&L and earned a master's in agricultural and
resource economics from North Carolina State University in 1994. He is cur-
rently working on his doctorate in forest economics and policy at N.C. State.
KHAMLA DHOUTI, INSTRUCTOR OF ROMANCE LANGUAGES (VISITING)

Dhouti is a 1991 graduate of W&L. She earned a master's from Middlebury
College and is completing her dissertation as a Ph.D. candidate at the University
of TexaS—Austin. V
SYMEON GIANNAKOS, ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF POLITICS (VISITING)

Giannakos is part ofa faculty exchange with the American University in
Bulgaria. He earned his bachelor's from Plymouth State University and his
master's and doctorate degrees in foreign affairs from the University of Vir-
ginia. His area of expertise is international relations.

ALAN GRANDA, PROFESSOR OF BIOLOGY (VISITING)

Granda is a Senior Humboldt Fellow at the University of Delaware. He is
teaching a special course in neuroscience titled "The Biology ofViSion" this fall.
JEFFREY HASS, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF ANTHROPOLOGY/SOCIOLOGY

Hass earned his bachelor's in chemistry from Harvard in 1989 and his master's
in sociology from Princeton in 1993. He is currently a Ph.D. candidate at Princeton.
Hass Served as a teaching assistant at Princeton and has also taught at Duquesne
University and the University of Pittsburgh.

DONNA KOROL, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF PSYCHOLOGY (VISITING)

Korol earned her bachelor's degree from the University of Wisconsin in 1983
and a Ph. D. in 1991 in neuroscience from the University of Virginia, where she
has most recently Served as a research associate.

MICHAEL KULIKOWSKI, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF HISTORY

Kulikowski received his bachelor's in history from Rutgers University in 1991
and his master's and doctorate degrees in medieval Studies from the University of
Toronto. His area of special interest is the Middle Ages.

HUN LYE, INSTRUCTOR OF RELIGION

Lye received his bachelor's degree from Allegheny College in 1993 and is
presently a Ph.D. candidate at the University of Virginia. His area of special
interest is East Asian Buddhism.

EUGENE MCCABE, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION

McCabe received his bachelor's degree from Bates College in 1995. He will
Serve as an assistant coach in football and men's lacrosse in addition to his teach-
ing assignment in physical education.

VERONIQUE MCNELLY, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF ROMANCE LANGUAGES

McNelly earned her bachelor's and InaSter's in French literature at the Uni-
versity of Virginia and is currently a candidate for a Ph.D. from Virginia. Her
specialty is the French literature of West Africa and the Caribbean.

PULITZER WINNER READS POETRY

Henry Taylor, 1986 winner of the Pulitzer
Prize for “The Flying Change,” will give a
poetry reading in Northen Auditorium 7 p.m.
on Oct. 5. Taylor's visit is sponsored by the
Glasgow Endowment Program at W&L.

His books of poems include “The Horse
Show at Midnight,” “An Afternoon of Pocket
Billiards,” “The Flying Change” and “Under-
Standing Fiction: Poems, 1986- 1 996.” He has
published three other books and his transla-
tion of Sophocles’ “Electra” appeared last
spring in the Penn Greek Drama Series. Taylor
recieved a 1998 Individual Artist Fellowship
fron‘t the Virginia Commission for the Arts.

Rod Smith, editor of the University's liter-
ary magazine “Shenandoah,” describes Tay-
lor as, “A spectacular reader who connects
with any audience on an electric level.”

ANTHROPOLOGY HOSTS OPEN HOUSE

AS part of Virginia Archaeology Month,
the laboratory of anthropology at W&L will
hold an open house on Oct. 10 from 10 a.m.
until 4 pm. The public is invited to the labo-
ratory for the formal opening of new exhibits
at the archaeology museum and interpretive
tours of the historical Liberty Hall area.

The laboratory is located near W&L'S ath-
letic ﬁelds off of Route 60 West in the red
brick farmhouse.

Guided interpretive tours of the ruins of the
Liberty Hall academic building and historic
campus area will be conducted and brochures
will be available for Self-guided tours. The lo-
cations of buildings associated with the carn-
pus that are no longer Standing will be marked
so the public can See the extent of the campus.

STUDENTS ATTEND CONFERENCE ON ABUSE

Five W&L students will attend the Virginia
Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control's
13th annual conference on Oct. 8-10 in Nor-
folk, Va. Faculty, students, campus police and
administrators from colleges and universities
across Virginia will work together to create
solutions for preventing underage and binge
drinking on their campuses.

The W&L student leaders attending are
Greta Richter, Student Judicial Council chair;
Patrick McCorrnack, Student Judicial Coun-
cil secretary; Sara McCrone, Panhellenic
Council president; Mikel Parker, Interfrater-
nity Council president and Gregg Genetti, In-
terfratemity Council vice president.

Solution to crossword puzzle on page 8.

You know you're more than a piece of paper.
You're bursting with ideas and insights that can
change the world of business. And at Andersen

As a leading global management and
technology consulting organization, we bring our
insights and ideas to world—class clients to help

_n__IJ_g_:: PBIED TEAR
AtI1'LAn§EoLIO
SEPARATION .19“;
HJSTA_§_ES nu TER
SUD PUB: Consultingwewantthem.
BETTEE HALGIJJ N
’lEAD FENCE PIE
n HG PLATE cEg_§_
Al|’1' PIEBS cAnEI)
GEslrunEs CANAHY
EBCAT LED
STHEET EonEcAs'r
NEAT lN=VITABlE
All+I_l_S N0"ES :Lu5
PIPE snllni TERM

SUSANA NUCCETELLI, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF PHILOSOPHY (VISITING)

Nuccetelli earned her bachelor's in philosophy and linguistics from the Na-
tional University of Rosario, Argentina. She holds doctorate degrees from
Universidad Autonoma of Madrid, the University of Murcia and City Univer-
sity of New York. Her area of Specialization is philosophy of the mind.
JAMES RAPER, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF JOURNALISM

Raper is a 1971 graduate of the University of Richmond. For 20 years he
worked for the Virginian-Pilot in Norfolk and its sister newspaper, the Led-
ger-Slar. From 1984-1991 he was the managing editor for both newspapers.
CLIFTON ROBERTSON, INSTRUCTOR OF ROMANCE LANGUAGES

Robertson earned a B.A. in Iberian history and B.S.N. and M.A. degrees in
Spanish literature from the University of Virginia. He is presently a Ph.D.
candidate in Spanish literature from Virginia. He has taught at Virginia, the
University of Oregon and St. Mary's Academy in Almeria, Spain.

FRANK SETTLE, PROFESSOR OF CHEMISTRY

Settle earned his bachelor's degree from Emory & Henry College and his
Ph.D. from the University of Tennessee. Since 1995 he been employed by the
National Science Foundation as a program director. Settle is professor emeritus
of chemistry at Virginia Military Institute and has also taught at the US. Air
Force Academy, James Madison University and Virginia Polytechnic Institute.
DENNIS TERRY, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF GEOLOGY (VISITING)

Terry earned his master's from Bowling Green University and his Ph.D.
from the University of Nebraska-Lincoln. He has taught at Nebraska and at
the University of Wisconsin-Oshkosh. ‘

LISA VETTER, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF POLITICS (VISITING)

Vetter earned her bachelor's from the University of Maryland and her
master's from Fordham University. She is currently completing work toward
her Ph.D. at Fordham. Vetter has taught at Fordham and New York University
and her area of specialization is political philosophy.

TRINA WELSHEIMER, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF BIOLOGY

Welsheimer earned her bachelor's from the University of Delaware in 1985
and her doctorate at the University of North Carolina. Welsheimer served as a
laboratory instructor in microbiology at North Carolina.

LESLIE WILLIAMS, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF JAPANESE (VISITING)

Williams earned his master's in anthropology from Florida State in 1990,
was a Monbusho Scholar in Japan and earned his Ph.D. in cultural anthropol-
ogy from the University of Pittsburgh in 1997.

MARSHAL ZERINGUE, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF POLITICS (VISITING)

Zeringue earned his bachelor's and master's in political science from Tulane
University and is working toward a doctorate in the department of govem-
ment and foreign affairs at the University of Virginia.

We're looking for thinkers. Notjust their diplomas.

It's all about making an impact.
Andersen Consulting Information Session—Thursday, October 8, 7:00 p.m. University Center, Room 114

powerful ideas to align strategy with
(people, processes and technology.

your future.

‘« I998 Andersen Consulting. All rights reserved. An equal opportunity employer.

them achieve profound change. After all, it takes

and expose you to a variety of projects and
industries. All of which builds a solid foundation for

Take this opportunity to talk to us about
yourself, and most importantly, your ideas.

‘Visit our Web site at www.ac.com

We'll provide ﬁrst—rate training and guidance,

Andersen
Consulting

 

 

PAGE 6

SEPTEMBER 28, 1998

l’RlNCll’l.|iS n/' S()l'Nl)

T I R Ii M ii X ’I‘ IN \' 1‘) ST I N (E

 

RECENTLY,
MORNINGSTAR CALLE
US CHEAP.  

IT’S NOT EVERY DAY
YOU GET A COMPLIMENT
LIKE THAT.  

All ﬁnancial companies charge operating fees

and expenses-—some more than others. Of ‘

course, the lower the expenses you pay, the better.
That way, more of your money goes where it
should —towards building a comfortable future.

We make low expenses at top priority.

As the largest retirement system in the
world‘ ——a nonproﬁt company focused exclu-
sively on the financial needs of the educational
and research communities —-our expenses are
among the lowest in the insurance and mutual
fund industries?

In fact, TIAA-CREF's 0.31% average fund
expenses are less than half of the expense charges
of comparable funds.’ It's why Momingstar--
one of the nations leading sources of annuity and
mutual fund information — says, "At that level
[TIAA-CREF] is cheaper than any other

[variable annuity] policy, and is even compet-
itive with the cheapest mutual fund complexes,
though it offers far more benefits.“

“TIAA-CREF sets the standard in the
ﬁnancial services industry.”

Of course, expenses are only one factor to
consider when you make an investment decision.
Morningstar also noted our commitment to
"consumer education, service" and "solid
investment performance." Because that can
make a difference in the long run, too.

At TIAA-CREE we believe people would
like to spend more in retirement, not on their
retirement company. Today, over two million
people count on that approach to help them
build a comfortable and secure future. So
can you. To find out more, call us at

I 800 842-2776. We'd consider it a compliment.

Visit us on the Internet at www.tiaa.-cref.org

Ensuring the future

for those who shape it?‘

1. Based on $256 billion in assets under managemen‘. 2. Stani}ar3 0’Pam/‘:1 /ruumnct RalI'n_qAnaIy..1IL4, I998; Lipper Analytical Services, Inc..
L4i;zzr-Di1'ectar.r'Anzz/y[i'ca/ Data 1998 (Quarterly). 3. Of the 4.829 variable annuities tracked by Morningstar, the average fund had total fees
combining annual expenses of 0.82% plus an insurance expense of 1.27%. Source: Morningstar, Inc., for periods ending 7/31/98.

4. Source: Muiningstar Principia VarI2zbkAnnuh‘ia1/Life 4/30/98.

TIAA-CREF expenses are subject to change and are not guaranteed for the future. Past performance is no guarantee of future results.
TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services distributes CREF certificates and interests in the TIAA Real Estate Account.
For more complete information. including charges and expenses, call I 800 842-2776. EXLCHSIOH 5509, for the prospectuses.
Read them carefully before you invest or send money.

ihe siudeni ociiviiies

wiih

homecoming weekend
fridciy, ociober 2, 1998 oi the povillion

Picture
yourself
here

in the Phiofﬁce, handling
accounts for real businesses
and earning commission for

ad sales
(across from the Student Activities Office).
We’ll contact you for an interview.

 

I L Keep upiwith what’s happening on the Hill. Get the university newspaper dehve ialitoly ueyery

I I  $3Q)toil\j1.anaging Editor Jason Williams, W&L University, University Ce ter,’

, wmmn:
BUSINESS Mmuistn

The Ring—tum Phi is looking for a new
business manager. If you’re thinking about
a career in public relations, advertising,
management, accounting, or you’re just
interested in a rewarding extracurricular
activity to boost your resumé, apply now:

Write an application letter to The Ring-tum
Phi Editorial Board. Tell us your
qualifications and why you want the
position. Deliver your letter to The Ring-
tum Phi mailbox in the University Center

_ ‘-«~w.u..-.«.-«-.-a.;-..-.\«.¢-:a.»..¢-/

boord presents

iho muse.meon’r

doors open: 8:30 p.m. — show starts: 9 p.m.

$8 w&| community .— $12 non—w&|

‘rickets on sale sepiember 28-October 2 oi the co—op

   
 

3.

 

K

 

The 1998 Homecoming Queen
nominees are in and they are all Wash-
ington and Lee women. The alumni as-

I,‘ sociation, Kathekon, picked a panel
from the faculty and staff to interview
the women and pick this year’s Queen.
The committee looks for a woman who
makes a great contribution to

‘it Washinton and Lee. This year’s can-
didates face interviews Friday. The
winner and her court will be crowned
during half-time of this Saturday’s foot-
‘:1 ball game against Randolph-Macon at
‘ Wilson Field.

The nominees are:
‘ CHI PSI
Amy Jo Baker ’99
Chi Omega
Escort: Chris Neilsen
A
KAPPA SIGMA
1
I

 

Cecily Audrey Reynolds ’99

Kappa Alpha Theta
A Escort: Andrew Duane
Beckler
LAMBDA CHI ALPHA
.*
A

 
 
 

A v ‘:

Elizabeth Carol Perkins ’99
‘Escort: Jeffrey Lynn Rankin

PHI DELTA THETA

*Mary Crawford McFall ’99

Kappa Kappa Gamma
Escort: Harry Maurice
Wilson
A
PHI GAMMA DELTA

A
f.

Kelly Elizabeth Stewart ’00

Escort: Jason Allyn Nichols
A

PHI KAPPA SIGMA

fﬂ

 

Cory Kristen Mettee ’99
Escort: Stephen Hall Birdsall

I.

 

PHI KAPPA PS1
I
1
Anna Berry Lowden ’99
Kappa Alpha Theta

‘ Escort: Mark Averyt

PI KAPPA PHI

    
 
 
    

Caroline Tison Simons ’99
Kappa Alpha Theta
Escort: Samuel Moore Chase

SIGMA ALPHA EPsILoN

Ashley Secrest Penkava ’99
Chi Omega
Escort: John Peyre Scurry

.E .
Elizabeth Katherine Spencer
  _,_,99  . 
Escort: Hansel] Merrill
Pasco

SIGMA N U

Suzanne Miriam Blum ’00
Pi Beta Phi
Escort: Darrick Harper
Alford

SIGMA PHI EPsILoN

 

Megan Lousie Snodgrass ’99
Escort: Michael John
Beakley

KAPPA ALPHA THETA

Amanda Jo Stallard ’99

‘Greeks Nominate
:Queen Candidates

 

Escort: John David

Sarah Elizabeth Rector ’99
Escort: Reed Calvert Kuhn

Grumbine

 

   

 

KAPPA DELTA

Enid Elizabeth Dean ’99
Escort: Matthew Adrian

KAPPA KAPPA GAMMA

Thurlow

 
    

Sarah Meier Saalfield ’99
Escort: Blake Nathaniel

Amy Kathleen Stowell ’99
Escort: Grady Walter Coker

(Beta Theta Pi and Minority Student
Association nominees not available at

press time)

PI BETA PHI

Jones

LOOKING BACK

photo cortesy of the Calyx

Kisses for a Queen. Professor of Chemistry Keith
Shillington made it his tradition to crown and kiss the
Homecoming Queen each year. Shillington kissed the
winner for 32 years until his retirement and subsequent
death in the early 1990’s. He crowned the ﬁrst Queen
from W&L, Catherine Christian ’89 in 1987.

 HOMECOMING

. V 4510‘ W
photo courtesy of Mercury Records

God Street Wine will perform Friday at the Pavillion. Doors
open at 8:30 p.m., and the show begins at 9 p.m.

W&L Celebrates
First Homecoming

Day in 1925

On Saturday, Nov. 7, 1925, thou-
sands of people stood in the rain in
standing room only space at

Wilson Field to watch the Generals
football team annihilate UVA, 12-0. The
first annual Homecoming began with a
bang.

The Alumni Magazine for October,

1925 announced the “First Official
Annual Homecoming Day.” Tickets
were $2 and the seats were reserved.
Alumni were invited to attend a meet-
ing ofthe Alumni Association, where
G.H. Denny, a former W&L president
-who later became president of the Uni-
versity of Alabama (the school accused
of stealing the “W&L Swing” and re-
naming it “The Alabama Swing”) ad-
dressed the crowd. Alumni also could
attend Saturday morning classes.

Campus accommodations had to be
made for 10,000 people. The Alumni
Magazine listed fraternity house man-
agers so the alumni could contact them
if they wanted to stay in their houses.
The railroads offered special rates from
all over the state to Lexington. Game
tickets were sold in Roanoke,
Lynchburg and Staunton. G

Local merchants were asked to keep
their stores closed during the aﬁemoon
so that everyone in town could attend
the game.

A dance was held on Saturday
night.

Many of the traditions which grew
up over the years are now gone: frater-
nity decorations, ﬁeshman parades, the
13 Club, pep rallies and the “Opening
Dance.”

On Friday night, the night before the
big game, the freshman, wearing paja-
mas, and other students would gather
in the gym for apep rally. W&L’s cheer-
leaders led the students in cheers and
athletes and coaches gave speeches. In
1955, the R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Com-
pany gave 1,000 megaphones to the stu-
dents for the pep rally.

Thirteen days before Homecoming,
the 13 Club would begin its initiation
period for 13 new

pledges from 13 different fraternities
who each paid an initiation fee of $ 1 3. l 3.
As their most

famous tradition, the pledges would
tar and feather the Cyrus McCormick
statue on the front lawn and cover the
base with number 13’s.

The drinking associated with the

Welcome
Back
Alumni !

If you have any
stories or photos
you’d like to share,
e-mail us at:

phi@wlu.edu

Homecoming game has also changed
over the years. In the 1955 Homecom-
ing issue of the Phi, the Executive
Committee stated that its policy
against public drinking would be
strictly enforced at that year’s game.
The University kept up the Home-
coming tradition over the years. 1955
is the only year they canceled the fes-
tivities.
The events occurred every year ex-
cept 1954 when the festivities were can-
celed. ~ compiled ﬁom staﬂ reports

it-=“3o.:p.m..t Haeécoming

PAGE 7

New York,

Band will

Rock

by Lora Ellison

STAFF WRITER

Many northern ears have perked
up at the mentioning of God Street

Wine as the choice for this year’s '

Homecoming band.

o

-.-. ....l:.

This New York group has a reputa- :1
tion for knocking the crowd’s socks ‘

off in concert, and there are many loyal
Washington and Lee fans that can at-
test to that.

Compared with groups such as
Phish, The Mighty Mighty Bosstones
and Ben Folds Five, God Street Wine
obviously has a somewhat diverse
sound which ranges from bluegrass
to ska, and covers many genres in be-
tween.

Their newest self-titled album fo-

cuses on the energy and spontane- -‘
ity that drives their live perfor- '

mances. Their contagious enthusi-

asm on stage as well as a knack for r

improvisation are two major
strengths which keep their fans com-

ing back for more. “They have a big -
following, mostly from the Northeast, '

but I think even the people who
haven’t heard ofthem will be pleas-
antly surprised,” Student Activities
Board President Wes Armstrong
said.

ThaMuseMeant, Friday night’s
opening band will move from the gentle
strum of the guitar to high paced thrills
of the mandolin. Originally from Santa
Fe, this group has taken its unique
sound on tour with Blues Traveler,
Dave Matthews Band, Leftover
Salmon and several others.

  
  

been on it

. . . . .. . ‘._ -_.,._._...-.n~.v.-.-x.-.._- . 3... .4 . . .4 ..... ...
.. .... -.--.. . ...-....-.-son-‘rs.n...~.-rum...-....
;.,_,-_._«,-.v.,._-.,-.,..-.-..,y.-.-cu. -.-c..-. .r. _ . an .- A

. o c.v v__v,O.-LwV..t;'.'AI‘p';¢i

.
.
0.
-.
.
.
-1
v.
'5
-.
-.
'1
H
v,
.

4 .v \

 

 

PAGE 8

Humor Page

LAST WORD  

SEPTEMBER 28, 1998

Hey buddy, Can You
Spare an Internship?

by Kevin McManemin

BLEA TING AND BABBLING

Your C-School friends have gotten
a great head start on their careers at
the Career Development and Place-
ment Office’s Meet the Players pro-
gram. Now we’re pleased to announce
that we’ve created a program for the
rest of the school:

Meet the Panhandlers

A Career Development
and Placement Office pro-
gram designed especially
for liberal arts majors.

Make valuable contacts and learn
hot hints from the professional unem-
ployed. More than 40 homeless alumni
will be on hand to answer your ques-
tions and borrow your money.

Then, branch off into the small
group seminar that best suits your in-
terests:

—Dumpsters: bedroom, pantry or
both?

—The right way and the wrong way
to mumble incoherently to yourself.

—A beginners guide to malt liquor.

—Public urination laws and you.

photo by Jana Bircliuin

A Meet the Panhandlers participant practices an important
career skill and makes the most of his English major.

 

Crossword Puzzle

ACROSS

1 Poles 4 RBI’ e‘g'

5 Snooped 5 Annoy

10 Ruler of old 6 Evaluated

14 Dismounted 7 Rambow

15 Huge 8 

16 Stew 9 Condemn openly

17 Schism 10 Threw

19 Fountain drink 1 1 Gr°°_Ve

20 Certain captives 12 Asslstant

21 Expulsion 13 Jungle sound

23 Chew the -— (mediate) 18 Ran

24 Clean 22 Prod

25 Sofa 24 Breathes heavily

29 Dangle 25 Piece ofwood to keep a
33 Beg car from moving

34 Bam-er 26 Upper class

35 Bakery item 27 Canvas shelters

36 Marriage band 28 Childrenls game

37 Dish 29 Listens to

38 Yield, as territory 30 “Aida? e‘g' _

39 Lawyer: abbn 3] More expansive

40 Docks 32 Indigent

41 was concerned 34 Group ofwarships

42 Expressive motions 37 Robbing Ships at Sea
44 Songbird 38 Container

45 Begone! V 40 Purplish color

46 was ahead 41 Military school student
47 Avenue 43 Afma" ﬂy f ",vely‘jinuch, ploudiof helit
50 Predict 44 Red gj nizer/ChouiNip-Fou.
55 Tidy 46 Adored

56 Unavoidable 47 Break

58 weapons 48 Actress Garr

59 Memoranda 49 Incline

60 Pivot 50 Greek cheese

61 Tube 5 I Hm]

62 Class 52 Competent

63 Tenure 53 Pronounce indistinctly

54 Pour
  And not

1 Im etuous . .

2 Maggargne :3 1994 T”b"”e Med” “needed to screw it back in.
3 lmmerses ervlces

tereot ’es”p’rot‘e‘stla¢k ortusigsr  . .=:={  " ~ 
Hoill  ooh’-—‘fEh, why-a is it ,there’s-a no roles
‘stereotypes-a no] more? Mama jmialg” cried 
9 Giuseppe?Dorriiriic1§_Francis(Aritigliong at the Ethw 4»
Stereotype  é,March down Hollywood Bou- r‘
Jevard today.,Tlie§tereotypes are angered by the ,
>1’ léidisturbingliglack ofjfoles for crude ethnic stereo-
gjtypes irifrnoiiernlfilrnsi‘ “Me ‘rikey’ being steleotype

A, A ~ , “When‘rriy tribe first come to Hills of Hollywood
 many moons ago there were many go§$‘d roles for
3 braves,” explains Chiefwoiks-On-Commission of the

, Redfoot tribe. “Now all roles for minorities have
jg depth,’ intelligence. Poison for us simple stereotypes.”
   lThe1n‘arch”drew together stereotypes of every

1 1‘ race and creed, except for the Irish contingent which ‘

 blew off the march to go to a pub and the Polish

2 contingent which was stalled when a light bulb

, burnediout at their headquarters and they spent

‘ I7 all day trying to remember how many of them were

Just listen to what previous Meet
the Panhandlers participants have to
say:

“I interned in an alley a few blocks
away from Wall Street this summer and
it was great. Everyone was so friendly,
they onlyjumped me twice!”

Matt, class of ' 93

“When I graduated W&L with a
double major in philosophy and Me-
dieval and Renaissance studies, it sure
looked like it was back to living with
my parents for me. But thanks to the
contacts I made at Meet the Panhan-
dlers, now I’m living in my own tool
shed!”

Jimmy, class of '96

“My starting salary is seven dol-
lars and fifty-three cents a week. I
sleep in a refrigerator box with a fam-
ily of diseased squirrels. I’m addicted
to eight different drugs. But at least
I’m my own boss!”

Jill, class of '89

So if you’re majoring in English,
theater,joumalism, history, sociology/
anthropology, math, or any of the
other majors with little or no bearing
on the real world, come this Thurs-
day night to the dumpster behind the
D-hall and Meet the Panhandlers!
Program starts around seven-ish and
ends when the cops k.ick us out.

Tattered attire is requested.

The CDPO —— “because it’s your
own damn fault for majoring in liberal
arts.”

  
 

.   
‘moderatelypricedtotitwithin .

  

age” said march orga-

ClassiPhieds

For Sale

Lost and Found

1000 empty dip cans, make great
conversation piece and good build-
ing material, ring Bub or B0 at the
<insert name of your favorite south-
ernfraternizy> house.

Lost: freshman roommate. Left last
week for class at duPont Hall and
never came back. 6’ 1, male, brown
hair, blue eyes. Answers to “Brian.”

Found: Newcomb Hall. Found sit-
ting on Colonnade looking lost and
forlorn.

1997 BMW M coupe. Daddy just
bought me the new ’98 model so I
don’t need this ol’ clunker anymore.
Will trade for a handle of Beam or
best offer.

Lost: virginity. Last seen going into
frat party drunk. Please return.

Employment

Rockbridge County man has two
tickets to the WWF’s Summer Slam
’96. Will take a new rake or best offer.

45,755 Dead Bootlegs. No longer
needed as my stereo system is old
and the speakers have gone to pot.

Wanted

Anyone know a cure for genital
warts? Anyone? Call Rob at ext. 643.
Please hurry.

Frat needs pledges. Damn winter
rush, we have crappy jobs that need
to be done now! Tasks include
answering phones, errands to Stop-
In at all hours of day and night,
cleaning up puke and other bodily
substances after parties, occasional
self-flagellation and defecation, in-
tense manual labor and psychologi-
cal torture. Pay is nothing and you
maggots will like it that way until we
find out if you have what it takes to
be a brother.

Answers to Calculus midterm. What
the hell is a derivative? lntegr-what?
Ring Tom, Robinson Hall, R-5, third
aisle, window seat.

Date for homecoming. Please.
Anybody. I’m not a picky man.
Really. How about you? What’s
that, you’ve already got a date? Oh.
Okay. Sorry to bother you. Really,
anybody is fine. How about you
there, with the braces? What, you’ll
be out of town? Oh. Okay. I just
want to find a date for homecoming.
Oh God, why can’t I find a date for
homecoming? Well, if you change
your mind, ring Alexander at ext. 375.
Sony for wasting your time.

Editor needsed forPhi. Must know
goods grammar puncuation and
spelling, and spelling, must check
for fatc errors as;well as typos,
badly needed editors to edit. Must
not make up information or quotes.

Are you a “can-do” kind of person
who wakes up every morning
excited about the challenges of a
fresh new day? Are you a self-
starter, a go-getter, a people-per-
son? If you think this description of
you is “right-on,” l’ve got a niftyjob
for you: speed bump! Apply in
person, left lane, I-81, rush hour.

Nazi goons needed. Be a part ofthe
Administration’s “War on Fun.”

     
   
 
  
  
 

A Story Of Kegs, Dances, Paddlings,
And A Hell Night That Will Lead You To
The..... I

 Em i»\i«*.~. 1 im-

4

Personals

A W&L Original

SW preppy into beer, Dave Matthews
Band and myself, looking for willing
female to hook—up with this weekend
and then completely forget about.
Ring Chad ext. 345.

A W&L Original

SW preppy into beer, Dave Matthews
Band and myself, looking for willing
female to hook—up with this weekend
and then completely forget about.
Ring Mark ext. 486.

A W&L Original

SW preppy into beer, Dave Matthews
Band and myself, looking for willing
female to hook-up with thisrweekend
and then completely forget about.

Ring Chris ext. 253.

Needs husband before graduation
SWF looking for rich Southern man to
take home to daddy. Fax resume to
Mary Susan, ext. 532.

Goddess needs god

SWF, tall, thin, blonde. . . oh, damn
that honor system. SWF, short, fat,
frankly unattractive, seeking what-
ever she can get her grubby little
hands on.

Hello, it’s me again, I still need a date
for homecoming and I thought maybe‘
if I advertised down here it might work
better than the “Wanted” section.
So, anybody need a date? Anybody?
How about you, in the box above —
short, fat and unattractive is not a
problem with me. What’s that, you’re
busy thatnight? Oh, Okay. Well, if
anyone changes her mind, call
Alexander at ext. 375. Please.

Phi writer looking to get in touch
with young women who like Phi
writers, ring Phi office.

4 THE aocm TH AT r:-tlxposrss wt. AT 
you KNEW -rpoi BE ‘rm: E‘.fOF‘ilf‘RATERNlTY Ru:-3i-i.
an-r wares AFRAID To Aroma-r.

"Send me
Name

oopyﬁcs) of I-IELLMASTER

Addmss

Biiiﬂcioka
P. O. Box 84 4

Sullivan's island, SC 293482

ZIP

 

$15 pm‘ book plus $2 shipping and handling.
Please make checks payable to Bil} Books and mail t-3'.

Editor ’s Note: This is a real book by a W&L alum It is not available at the W&L bookstore, so it must be purchased through
the author. Send this coupon and a check to the address above.

A

A

‘it

F

 

