A

 

Washington and Lee University
VOLUME 101, NUMBER 4

OCTOBER 5, 1998

U112 ﬁling-tum {ﬂirt 

.U.S. Congress Passes
.Campus Security Act

Clinton expected to sign bill allowing greater
at public access to disciplinary hearing records

'1.

by Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

With resounding approval, this
week the U.S. Congress declared the
right to know more important than the
right to privacy.

With unanimous votes in both
Houses, Congress passed a bill that
will revise the way in which colleges
report crime, as well as the public’s
access to that information.

The bill, which President Bill
Clinton is expected to sign early next
week, calls for public access to certain
records from student disciplinary hear-

‘ ings. Security logs in both public and

A

private schools will have to be updated
daily, and made available to students.
“Of course it’s not ﬁnal until the
President signs it, but it looks as
though the college student media-—
both public and private—have won a
major legislative victory in their effort
to effectively and accurately cover
campus crime,” Michael Hiestand,
staff attorney of the Student Press Law
Center in Washington, D.C said.

The bill comes in response to a
grass-roots movement that advocates
the increased awareness of campus
crime as well as the students’ right to
know the persons or places around
them that might be dangerous.

For private colleges such as Wash-
ington and Lee, the new bill could have
serious repercussions.

The Washington and Lee Honor
Code, widely considered to be one of
the strongest in the country, is upheld
mainly by student-run organizations
which thrive on privacy. Both the Ex-
ecutive Committee and the Student Ju-
diciary Committee operate on the
premise that their deliberations are
highly secret until a decision has been
reached, at which time an announce-
ment of the crime and punishment is
made.

“I think that during a hearing,
things need to be kept fairly quiet, but
once the case has been heard, it’s good
to get it all out in the open,” Dean
Anne Schroer—Lamont said.

Greta Richter, President of the S.J.C.,
contends that the W&L judicial pro-

Jury Finds Lobsterback
Guilty of M arder

it

1.

by Tarah Grant

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

Without any deliberation, ajury de-
livered its verdict of two acquittals and

' two convictions, one manslaughter

K

'4”

andvone murder, in a reenactment of
the Boston Massacre trial on Friday
afternoon. The Honorable Edmund
Trowbridge (Gray Castle ’53, ’55L)
announced the convictions to a
Lenfest Center audience of over 300
alumni, students and faculty after a
two»-hour trial ﬁlled with intense de-
bate and interruptions from a riotous
audience.

“The verdict I received, along with
my other soldier comrades was exactly
as I predicted,” said Hugh Montgom-
ery (Chris Luttrell ’0 IL) who was con-
victed of manslaughter.

Attorneys John Adams (Harvey
Handley III ’66, ’72L) and Josiah

T Quincy, Jr. (Stephen Annand ’72L) ar-

gued for the four British soldiers ac-
cused of murdering three citizens of
Boston during a confrontation in front

( of the town’s custom house. They pled

not guilty and reminded the jury to act

— with “patience, candor, and caution”

because “the reputation of this coun-
try depends on the outcome of this

" trial.” The defense focused on the fact

i

that the confrontation occurred at
night, preventing the eye-witnesses
from knowing which soldiers were
guilty and “it’s better for four guilty
men to go free than to have one inno-
cent man be punished.”

Attorneys Samuel Quincy (Waller
Dudley ’74, ’79L) and Robert Paine

! (C.J. Steuart Thomas III ’86L) repre-

1

sented the prosecution. In his open-
ing statement, Quincy asked the jury
members to “disallow passion from
nibbling on the sweet meat of the
brain” and to convict the soldiers for
“willful, premeditated murder.” The
prosecution argued that the soldiers
did not kill in self-defense because the
citizens were only throwing snow balls
which could not seriously harm them.
The prosecution and defense pre-
sented a variety of witnesses, includ-
ing the Town Watchman (Beth
Maliszewski ’0lL), a slave (Rajesh
Prasad ’99L), a merchant (Sameena
Turabi ’00L) and a law clerk (Robert
Rogers III ’0 1 L). Apprentice Archibald
Bowman (Melissa lnzerilo ’0lL) and
wigmaker Samuel Hemingway (Direc-
tor of Dining Services Gerald Darrell)
gave the most impassioned testimo-
nies. Aﬁer demonstrating how he had
“pummeled soldiers” and calling one of
the defendants “mean as a snake,”
Bowman was told by the judge that his
“exuberance [was] charming” but he
would be pleased if Bowman stuck with
“just the facts.” Hemingway was rep-
rehended for referring to British soldiers
as “lobsterbacks” and for talking to
audience members while on the stand.
Throughout the trial, outspoken
members of the audience voiced their
support for the prosecution’s case,
calling the soldiers “murderers” who
killed in “cold blood.” Perhaps
prompted by the audience’s com-
ments, the prosecution repeatedly tried
to belittle the defense’s witnesses. At
one point during the trial when the

See TRIAL, Page 2

cess works well as it is. “I’m not try-
ing to deny the public’s right to know,
but the S.J.C. works to try and correct
situations such as these,” Richter
said. “For example, the punishment
for physical assault is immediate sus-
pension——we remove the threat to stu-
dents’ safety.”

While Richter doubts that the stu-
dent media could handle increased
access in an accountable manner,
Schroer—Lamont says that public ac-
cessibility might not be such a bad
thing.

“I think there can be some ben-
eﬁts, and I do think that student jour-
nalists are capable of handling it in a
responsible way,” Schroer—Lamont
said.

Currently, under the Family Edu-
cation Rights and Privacy Act
(FERPA), many universities refuse to
provide information about the out-
come of disciplinary proceedings
when a violent crime is involved, cit-
ing these outcomes as part of the
student’s academic record.

Congress also passed a revision
of FERPA that permits the parental
notiﬁcation of underage violations of
state, federal and local alcohol poli-

See CONGRESS, Page 2

1: 5 =

1998 Homecoming Queen Crowned

Phi Kappa Psi nominee, senior Theta Anna Lowden, was crowned Homecoming Queen
during halftime of the football game. Lowden is pictured here with her escort, senior Mark
Averyt. In spite of exceptional fan support, the Generals lost 34-6 to Randolph-Macon.

Photo by I-Iollister H. Hovey/Executive Editor

Literacy Volunteers Help Children

by Maggie Yates

NEWS WRITER

In an ideal world, young children
who need help reading would first go
to their parents.

But volunteers who went to tutor
children at the Treemont apartment
complex, a low—income housing
project in Buena Vista, learned that
this is not always the case.

“It was kind of sad,” volunteer and
W&L sophomore Jane Lacy said.
“The parents were saying, ‘I’m so glad
you’re here. Ican’t read to my kids.’
It deﬁnitely opened my eyes.”

Though the children at the
Treemont apartment complex come
from a supportive family background,
many of their parents cannot read and
therefore have a hard time helping
with homework. Due to this,
Rockbridge County Literacy Volun-
teers has committed themselves to
ﬁghting illiteracy in Lexington since
1986.

Literacy Volunteers, which has sev-
eral literacy programs in Lexington,
has adopted a new program geared to
help these young children learn to be
better readers. Volunteers go to the
Treemont apartment complex twice a
week to help about 30 young residents
with reading and other homework
Mondays and Wednesdays. The ma-
jor goals of this program are not only
to help the students become indepen-
dent readers, but also to teach them
organizational skills to help them get
their work done in a more efﬁcient

Photo by VCl1ristie Phillips/Photo Editor

For the reenactment of the Boston Massacre trial, Stephen Annand (’72L) represented the
British soldiers accused of murdering American colonists.

manner. Literacy Volunteers also hopes
that these Monday and Wednesday
afternoon visits will not only beneﬁt
the children, but will provide a teach-
ing model for the parents to follow in
the future.

As of now, the Treemont program
only has only a few volunteers, but
they are hoping others will join.

Literacy Volunteers also have two
other programs geared towards chil-
dren, Family Literacy tutors and Rov-
ing Readers. Roving Readers is a
HeadStart program that sends volun-
teers either into a school or to an after-
school session to read to pre-school
aged kids, while Family Literacy tutors

provides one-on-one tutoring for a
student. '

Unlike the Treemont program and
Roving Readers, Family Literacy tutors
must have some formal training on how

I to tutor children since their duties in-

volve helping kids who read below
their grade level. Literacy Volunteers
gets involved with these children when
they are notiﬁed by the school about
students who need extra help.

In addition to offering program for
children, Literacy Volunteers also of-
fers programs for adults, which include

See LITERACY, Page 2

 

Photo by Christie Phillips
Virginia Governor Jim
Gilmore speaks at Lee
Chapel Rededication
ceremony.

Holy Book Scandal Threatens VMI with Lawsuit

by Jennifer Agiesta

NEWS WRITER

For 19 years, Virginia Military Insti-
tute has given its graduating seniors
the Holy Book of their choice.

Now, this practice is being chal-
lenged by the Freedom From Religion
Foundation, a Wisconsin-based inter-
est group.

The group has threatened VMI with
a lawsuit if the practice is not stopped,
although it has not yet found a current
or former student willing to challenge
the school’s practice in court. Accord-
ing to a survey done by VMI’s news-
paper, The Cadet, 83 percent of cadets
think the process should continue, and
11 percent agree that it should stop.

The FFRF sent General Bunting a
letter on August 20 asking him to stop
giving out books and also to stop the
Baccalaureate Service held on campus
before graduation. This voluntary ser-
vice is run by the VMl’s chaplain and
is Christian in nature. Chaplain Jim Park
said it’s a chance for students and their
parents to celebrate through prayer the
culmination of four years of hard work.

The letter said, “The actions of the
Baccalaureate Service and handing out
holy books is an impermissible en-
tanglement of religion and state and
an illegal endorsement of religion.”

It also quoted the Virginia Consti-
tution, Article 1, Section 16: “Noman

shall be compelled to frequent or sup- :

port any religious worship, place, or
ministry whatsoever.” 

The group feels that these actions
by state-supported VMI give unfair
preference to students of faith and that
those who do not believe are wrongly
forced to distinguish themselves as
such or have someone else’s religion
forced upon them.

General Josiah Bunting, superinten-
dent ofVMI, replied on August 25. His
letter said that VMI would continue to

hand out holy books and hold the ser-
vice. Bunting has said that he would
ﬁght all the way to the Supreme Court
if necessary.

However, the school is not con-
vinced of the seriousness of the threat.
Assistant Head of Public Relations
Charles J. Steenburgh said the “arro-
gant sounding” letter surprised them,
and seemed to come out of nowhere.
He feels the group may have a hard
time ﬁnding a plaintiff to ﬁght the
school.

Annie Laurie Gaylor, editor of the
group’s newsletter Freethought Today,
told me that even if the group cannot
ﬁnd a student, they do have taxpay-
ing members in Virginia who could act
as a plaintiff, however they would pre-
fer a student.

Handing out Bibles was part of VMI
commencement from the founding of
the institution in 1839. Francis H.
Smith, the ﬁrst superintendent of the
school, felt that with a diploma and a
bible, a student could achieve any-
thing. He frequently wrote on the in-
side cover of these bibles a verse from
the gospel of Luke: I have prayed for
thee that thy faith fail not. When Smith

left VMI after ﬁfty years of service,
the tradition ended.

It was reinstated by the institution’ s
last chaplain, Charles Caudill, in 1979.
The books were not purchased by
state funds, but supported by a gift
from Pat Robertson of the Christian
Broadcasting Network. The books
were handed out in a voluntary cer-
emony separate from commencement.
Cadets have the option of choosing
any holy book—Koran, Torah, even
the Encyclopedia of Biblical Errancy-
they would like, or if they prefer not to
receive a holy text, they receive a book
of quotations called America’s God
and Country. Chaplain Park said they
give out about 25 of these non-holy
books each year. Over time, VMI has
handed out over 5,100 books.

Chaplain Park and General Bunting
both agreed that the books should be
given out with the diplomas, as Su-
perintendent Smith wanted. In 1996,
they brought the two back together,
and the separate ceremony died out.
Said Park, “We are big on character
development here, and we see faith in

See HOLY BOOK, Page 2

Ellis ﬁling-tum ilﬁht

October 5, 1998
OPINION:

and fall frolicking
W&LrFE:

international perspectives
SPORTS:

soccer still undefeated

For and against afﬁrmative action, letter from IFC,

Studying abroad, foreign exchange students, and

Football gets squashed, volleyball sweeps, women’s

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

PAGE 6&7

 

 

-1 ' - ‘ I - I V - .- .~ gm‘.-... ..-.\-......nu.......«._v...-.i.....-..-..—. .4
::..—,..t.mb.-::.at-z:.ee.;..;..un_-:..._:..a:a:ziaa.a_:n. .. .....‘.- .4» 0*

HOLY BOOK

continued from page 1

God as an aspect of that.”

The FFRF sees all of this as a major violation of
constitutional rights. Gaylor said, “Whether purchas-
ing the books or merely acting as a conduit, it gives
students the false impression that this is a sectarian,
not secular, institution. Students should not have to
distinguish themselves as non—believers.”

The Freedom From Religion Foundation was
founded in 1978 with the goals of keeping church and
state separate and educating the public about the views
of non-theists. Their members are “freethinkers.”

According to their website, “most freethinkers con-
sider religion to be not only untrue, but harmful. It has
been used to justify war, slavery, sexism, racism, ho-
mophobia, mutilation, intolerance and oppression of
minorities. The totalitarianism of religious absolutes
chokes progress.”

In 1996, the group sued the federal government over
the use of “In God We Trust” on currency and as our
national motto. Their appeal was brought before the
Supreme Court, but was denied. The Court declared
the motto “non-religious.” The FFRF says it keeps
several challenges in the courts at all times and that it
has members in all ﬁfty states and Canada.

LITERACY

continued from page 1

a literacy program and an English as a Second Lan-
guage program. Jones said that the ideal student for
the literacy program is someone who realizes that he
can further himself with reading skills and is motivated
to succeed, though she says that is not always the
case. Jones said that at the present time, there were not
many adults enrolled in the literacy program due to the
difﬁculty in reaching these men and women.

Jones also recently started teaching English as a
Second Language class for citizens who do not speak
English. She says that students are from various coun-
tries including Mexico, China, Russia, and Burma, and
that she conducts all ofthe sessions only in English to
ensure that the students learn. Though they also pro-
vide one—on-one tutoring, Jones believes that classes
will serve their purpose better.

Ifyou would like tojoin Literacy Volunteers, please
call 463-7037 or 463-4324.

Tell us some news.

,, phi@wlu.edu

 
    
 
    
 
  

  

  

  

     
 
 

G. LEYBURN LIBRARY
W;l\gl*AllENSGTON 8- LEE lJN|VEfiS!TY
LE)(lN(;Tr_‘N \/A ?-‘.4""'

5 and get a 3rd

  acggsettes and get. a 3rd 

éurée ~ Enteﬂainti; t,»...S , e

 NEWS

continued from page 1

town’s bookbinder Henry Knox (Robin Kaspar ’0 1 L) was on the stand, Quincy pulled out an
old, tattered book and asked Knox to rebind it for him.

Aﬁer closing statements, the judge refused ajury member’s request for deliberation time.
“I think you can do it rather quickly,” Trowbridge said.

Historically, six of the eight soldiers on trial for the Boston Massacre (where ﬁve citizens
were killed) were acquitted, and two were convicted of manslaughter. Friday’s jury, com-
prised of the first row of the audience, was perhaps more persuaded by the reenactment’s
prosecution, for they acquitted two of the four soldiers on trial, convicted one of manslaugh-
ter and one of murder, Kieran Bartley (’00L), one of the directors of the reenactment, said.

Several law students organized the reenactment, with Dean Joan Shaughnessy serving
as the faculty coordinator. Directors Bartley and William Donnelly (’93, ’99L) started re-
searching the actual Boston Massacre trial last March. They found historical documents
and condensed the testimonies of over 80 witnesses down to eight, four for the prosecution
and four for the defense.

“From the beginning, our idea was to produce a condensed version of the entire trial,”
Bartley said. “[The trial] was chosen because of the example of professional ethics demon-
stratedby John Adams and Josiah Quincy, Jr., the men who were the defense counsels for
the soldiers. Both men were strong advocates of colonial rights, yet both realized that the
soldiers were in need of counsel in what would be a trial for their lives. A number of lawyers
had already refused to take the soldiers’ case knowing that public sentiment was strongly
against the soldiers.” .

Over the summer, Bartley and Donnelly sent witness statements and background material
to the law school alumni who had volunteered to be in the production as the counsels and
judge. When school started, they got help from the Student Bar Association and its Sesqui-
centennial Committee Liaison Robyn Hill (’ 99L). They selected law students to be witnesses
and defendants, ordered costumes, borrowed a bayonet from the Liberty Hall Volunteers,
teleconferenced with participants, and arranged the post-trial reception.

Hill initially had difﬁculty ﬁnding students to volunteer. Ralph Clements (’00L) said he did
not want to have a speaking role, but he agreed to “dress up as a British soldier and just sit
there.” Clements ended up playing Matthew Kilroy, the soldier who was convicted of murder.

“I was glad that I participated after it was over,” Clements said. “I had never been in any
kind of stage production before, and so when I walked out onto the stage in that costume, I
guess I had a real case of stage fright. I could just imagine the entire audience snickering at
me personally. After a while, though, I began to realize that the audience had come expecting
me and the rest of the cast to look like this, and that I didn’t look any more or less ridiculous
than anyone else up there. By the end of the performance, I was really starting to enjoy it and
get into character a little bit. I guess it really didn’t matter since a person on trial for his life
would look scared and mortiﬁed, too.”

Although Bartley and Donnelly did not take the stage, they also were pleased with the
production. After Trowbridge announced the verdict on Friday afternoon, the audience
gave a long ovation to the participants.

“We were happy the way it worked out,” Donnelly said. “We had a couple of discussions
I wondering how much the political pressures of

the day affected the case, and I really think we
got our answer on Friday.”

Donnelly, who was a history major as an
undergraduate, added that the reenactment
was a “nice break from doing law school as-
signments.”

The mock trial, though, was both entertain-
ing and educational for the participants and
the audience. “I saw excellent attorneys ply
their trade——in period garb, no less,” Bartley

. said. “The production could have sewed as a
class on litigation technique.” l 9

Solution to crossward

    
    
 
   
 
 
 
  
    
    
   
 

on page 8

EL 553.-
  ‘CD5 — $2 079’
— 5 I oﬁ’

price as marked
 _C,’_A,rAL06uE 7'/nes:
Q fbrjustp
“.4 I. 99

just 5 I.

  

(6

. “,1

076/721

 
   

» a

0CT9§1§Q@

 

OCTOBER 5, 1998

Chi Omega Makes Strides
Against Cancer

The Chi Omega Sorority and Catholic Campus Ministry of Washington and Lee

Sunday, October 13. Participants are invited to seek pledges from friends, profes-
sors, family and others for the ﬁve mile walk through and around the city of
Lexington. All donations are tax deductible, as the proceeds go to the American
Cancer Society and the Rockbridge Community Unit of the ACS.

Cancer is a devastating disease whose reach is not limited to large cities: three out
of four Rockbridge County families will have a member affected by cancer, accord-
ing to a 1995 pamphlet distributed by the Virginia Division of the American Cancer

Rockbridge County.

The walk begins, rain or shine, on Sunday, October 13 from the Harris Teeter
parking lot. Registration is at 1:30 p.m. and the cost of registration is ﬁve dollars. The
individuals who turn in the most money on the day of the event will receive prizes

there is a penny-voting for the “Favorite Dog Contest,” which will be held out-
side the Co—op on the Washington and Lee campus the week preceding the event.

For more information on the Making Strides Against Cancer walk, please con-
tact Sarah Rector at (540) 464-6280.

CONGRESS

continued from page 1
cies. The move came in response to recommendations of a Virginia task force that studied
campus drinking.

According to Richter, about 90 percent of the cases the S.J.C. handles are alcohol—related.
“The majority of people who come before us are embarrassed and regret what they did. If
campus media gain access to that, they’re going to blow it out of proportion. It’s read by *
everyone. . . other students and faculty. It’s embarrassing and people remember it.”

Which is exactly the argument made by the opposition: in cases such as these media
attention is embarrassing, and can serve as a deterrent. At this early stage, it looks like one
of the major differences at W&L will be that notices posted after student hearings will name i
the defendant, the crime he/she was convicted of and the punishment.

“Particularly with respect to sexual assault cases, the women l’ve worked with have had a real
need to have a notice posted after the hearing; it seems to be a very important part of the healing
process,” Schroer—Lamont said.

About 90 percent of campus crime is perpetrated by students against students, and is A
related to other social problems. Because of this, provisions were included that deal with

‘ binge drinking and violence against women, as well as the suspension of ﬁnancial aid for

students with drug-related convictions. One million dollars was also set aside for a study
of how colleges handle sexual assault, something Washington and Lee was considering
making a return to anyway.

“We did sexual assault surveys on campus during 1990 - 1993, there’s been talk of going
back and doing it again to see where we are now, as opposed to where we were,” Schroer-
Lamont said. “When we don’t address something for a couple years, students get the idea
that we’re ignoring it.” If

So while qarppuses await the ‘practical applications of the new bill, it’s enough for some
simply to ‘know that this step has bieieirrtaken. “It’s certainly- beerra long time in coming,”
Hiestand said.‘ .rlt  . . . . - »

      
 

 

University are co-sponsoring a “Making Strides Against Cancer” fundraiser on L

The ACS will use the money for research, education and treatment of patients. ‘

Society. In addition, there are currently about ﬁve hundred cancer patients in 1

at a ceremony held immediately after the walk. In a further effort to raise money, ' 

‘Q

............OPINION-EDITORIAL 

Let’s go frolic

Frolicking excites me more than anything else in
all the world. Autumn provides a prime opportunity
for those who enjoy a good frolic. Some like to frolic
in the form ofa football game. Others prefer to toss
the frisbee with friends or their big fuzzy pup named
Duke. Still others
would rather sim-
ply prance around
like enchanted fair-
ies.

Whatever your
pleasure, the point
remains that a
good romping through the crisp autumn air refreshes
the human soul in a way that should not be ignored
because of minor hindrances.

Returning from my final classes last week, I was
deeply saddened by a front yard that was graced
with heavenly sunbeams and brisk gusts of wind,
but no frolicking students. Of course, the reason
that no one ornamented the front lawn is because
the school is generously thinking toward the future
and replenishing the voluptuous verdure for times
to come.

I am glad that students have the courtesy to re-
spect requests not to upset the growth process. I
am worried, however, that because of restricted use
of the choice spot for fall frolicking students will
neglect (or restrain) inherent longings to hop, skip
and jump on the way to cold season.

So I take this opportunity (before it is too late)
to challenge the student body not to hold back the

desire to enjoy

Off His Rocker

2

‘ Stephen Pesce ’O1

   

ll
'  the wonderfulfa

weather. Do not
allow the lawn job
being done in
front of the Col-
onnade to do a
lawn job on your

Some like to frolic
in the form of a
football game. . . .

 Others WOuld spirit and spunk,
rather simply prance W°"‘d“’_‘ ” be 3
. shame if when

around hke en’ those poor leaves
chanted fairies. change into their

colorful autumn
3) outfits, nobody
takes any notice?
All you lovely
ladies who got all gussied up for Homecoming fes-
tivities this past weekend, how would you have felt
if no one noticed how gorgeous you looked? So
please remember to give the trees the same cour-
tesy. When you see those exquisite yellow, orange
and red leaves, frolic, as if to say, “Why Madam,
you look simply radiant this gorgeous afternoon.
May I have this dance?”
Along with honor system, Spring Term and
a‘ caring faculty, the divine Shenandoah climate
proves one of the unique charms of Washington
and Lee. Let’s not ignore this gift. This autumn when
a heart-warming cool breeze passes through Lex-
ington, go outside and frolic. Let some spirits other
than Jack Daniel and Jim Beam move you through
to finals.

Ellie iﬂing-tum iﬂlii

Executive Editors Tarah Grant
Hollister Hovey
News Editors Polly Doig
John Stewart

W&LIfe Editors Ginger Phillips
Erica Prosser
Stephen Pesce
Frances Groberg
Brendan Harrington
Kevin McManemin
Sarah Meldrum
Meredith Mlynar
Mike Crittenden
Christie Phillips
Tom Wadlow

Opinion & Editorial Editor
Sports Editors

Last Word Editor
Copy Editors

Photo Editors
Online Editor

Business Manager
Advertising Assistant

Jason Williams
John Costello

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor and Business Manager, but
The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “Talkback" do not
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E—mail: phi@wIu.edu
http://w1u.edu/~phi
Annual subsription rate: $30

’ ivefaction widens T V
ttisi 4‘

d/to l L‘

' tin

 ii whofcton

uote of the Week:

 

I want to buy her, put her
on a platform in my house and
watch her all day long.

— Anonymous junior on the beauty of a
sophomore at Homecoming

J)

  

  

“My friend taking a
shower in the water
fountain at Wilson
Fiel ”

——}ean Rowan ’0l

l/I‘

“Four losers playing

tennis in the dark while

everyone was at the
concert Friday night.”

 

—Elizabeth Doem'es’0l

 

,. What’s the craziest thing you saw

 

at Homecoming?

“The mysteriously

exploding beer at the centipede on the
Munster.” dance floor.”
—Lauren LaFauci ’0l —Sean Fierke ’99

A , ‘Al;ee‘tioinmunity_a_rejworl,<ing‘ to ‘greaxera more re-
 job in workingwith us toward this goal. The con-

“ boththe administration of the school and the

 

“Travis Winfrey doing

 

   the .
negatiyfe .aspects‘of- fraternity life‘

. Currently. the.   the iwashington and

 

‘spans V V po;sia1.='»;~;tn;;;.‘sp1;ere jandeto establish
‘-;social.altematiyes to alcpohol.‘ We feel that the 1
. newspapers‘ onﬁthis campus could do a better

stant portrayal of (ioftenfunderage) undergradu-
” ates engaged inirresponsible drinking does little
t to alleviate the pressure we are all feeling from

state of V-irginia on thisiissue. By sensationaliz-
ing a “play«hard” attitude you simply increase
the pressure from those who wish to drastically
change our social habits here at W&L. While
‘these events do occur, we believe they are over-
represented. There is another side of this cam-
pus that habitually goes un- or under-reported.
We all have a stake in this issue, and a broader
perspective is needed, rather than who gets more
papers read from week to week. '

Sincerely,
The IFC and Fraternity Presidents

 

PAGE 4

Globetrotting, the Washington and Lee Way  

 

W& LIFE

OCTOBER 5, 1998

Students discover new educational, cultural opportunities through a wide range of study abroad programs

by Ginger Phillips

F EA TURES EDITOR

Are you ready to get out of Lex-
ington for a while? What about a trip
to a new and exciting place, maybe
somewhere far away? No, not
Roanoke. How about going to Spain,
Germany or even Australia? Or per-
haps you’d like to climb to the top of
the Eiffel Tower in France or tour the
streets of St. Petersburg in Russia.
These are just a few of the many
places in which W&L students can
choose to study through a wide va-
riety of study abroad programs. De-
ciding to study abroad is a big deci-
sion, but one that every W&L stu-
dent should consider.

“Studying abroad is an opportu-
nity that no one should pass up,”
senior Catherine Ruth Felton said. “It
is so hard once you graduate to travel
and see new places.”

Before youjump in that airplane,

By that time, most sophomores have
completed their second year of a for-
eign language and are beginning to de-
cide on their respective majors. They
feel that an educational experience
abroad would enhance the knowledge
they learned in the past and the deci-
sions they make in the future.

Despite this trend, a W&L student
generally can choose to study abroad
at any time, with few exceptions. Fresh-
men may only study off campus during
the spring and summer of their first year,
and seniors can opt for education
abroad with the special permission of
the Committee on Courses and Degrees.
A studentwith a minimum GPA of2.5 is
eligible to study offcampus during the
normal academic year, but only a 2.0 is
required for off campus study during
the summer.

“This year I have seen a marked in-
crease in the number of people inter-
ested in study abroad,” Dr. William
Klingelhofer, Director of the Ofﬁce of
International Education, said. “Atten-

 

Courtesy of Josh Chamberlain

A bull ﬁght in Seville, Spain was just one of the many cultural

stay in Spain this year.

‘however, you must ﬁnd the study
abroad program that best suits your
, needs. In order to do that, there are a

few important questions that you
must ask yourself. Where do you
want to go and what do you want to
study there? When do you make the
trip and how much money can you
afford to spend? Should you go with
a W&L-sponsored program or just
go on your own? These are all fac-
tors that will weigh heavily on your
decision to study abroad.

“After speaking with my advisor
and professors, I realized that it was
the opportune time to study abroad,”
junor Megan Fink said. “I had al-
ready ﬁnished two years of Spanish,
and studying in Spain would allow

' me to be completely immersed in the
, culture.”

Many W&L students choose to

 study overseas during the latter half
I of their second undergraduate year.

‘activities introduced to W&L students during their six week

dance at the Study Abroad Fair was
extremely high, and I think that the fair
was a success for the representatives
and for all who attended.”

Students who choose to study
abroad have two primary options. They
can either enroll in a study abroad pro-
gram based in the United States, or they
can apply directly to a foreign univer-
sity or institution. Each choice has its
advantages and disadvantages. By us-
ing an intermediate institution like a
U.S.—based program, a student can have
the comfort of knowing that they have
a contact back home who is committed
to ensuring a positive experience
abroad. Applying to and transferring
credit from these programs is often
easier, but they also tend to be more
costly than direct enrollment.

By directly enrolling in a foreign in-
stitution, a student can deﬁnitely save
some money, but the added paperwork
can be undesirable and frustrating.

by Elianna Marziani
STAFF WRITER

Think Washington and Lee is
not culturally diverse? W&L does
have some cultural diversity that it
continues to promote through pro-
grams like the Native Language As-
sistant program.

The NLA program was started
in 1982 through a gift from the Pew
Memorial Trust. In this program,
students from other countries who
speak Spanish, French, Japanese,
Chinese, German or Russian in the
standard, dialect-free form of the
language are eligible to apply to
come to W&L to act as a part-time
student and part-time native lan-
guage assistant.

An important distinction to
make is that these NLAs are not
TAs, or teachers’ assistants. TAs
are generally masters degree stu-
dents at large schools who teach a
class in lieu of a “real” professor.
W&L does not use TAs. The NLAs

their classrooms. They have con-
versations with students in their na-
tive languages and offer a more fim
aspect of language and culture,
thus broadening students’ hori-
zons and helping eliminate what
Professor Robert Youngblood
called the American “isolationist
mentality toward other cultures.”

NLAs Provide Culture

work with language professors in ,

He asserted that there is a “re-
ciprocal gain” involved in this pro-
gram; just as W&L students learn
more about foreign cultures, the
NLAs get a real picture of life in the
U.S., which is not always the same
image as the one they receive
through images from Hollywood.

Rosa Villot, the NLA from
France, agrees with Youngblood. A
British Literature masters degree
student at Diderot Paris Seven on
the Jussieu campus in Paris, Villot
ﬁrst came to W&L last winter for a
three-month period as an NLA and
decided to come back this year for
seven months.

“I enjoy talking about my cul-
ture. It’s fun,” she said.

Villot also plays French music
on her campus radio program
“Chipie,” which airs on Thurs-
days. Not only is she contribut-
ing to W&L students’ knowledge
of the French culture, but she is
having a good learning experi-

ence herself.

“I get to know my own lan-
guage better and can make com-
parisons and explain,” she said. “I
love it here. lt’s really cool, because
I get to know the people,” she said.

Unfortunately, this great pro-
gram has encountered some prob-
lems recently with changing visa
laws. But with luck, W&L will be
able to keep bringing NLAs to carn-
pus for years to come.

Many choose to do this, however, be-
cause it is often a more complete form
of cultural integration than the U.S.-
based programs. Students must at-
tend institutions that primarily serve
native students, instead of a school
that is speciﬁcally designed for the
beneﬁt of international students.

For the student who prefers to
study through a home-based pro-
gram, W&L offers a variety of op-
tions. The most popular are the
unique, six week study abroad pro-
grams sponsored by W&L during
each spring term. Students are accom-
panied by W&L professors and can
study language and culture in places
like Spain, Russia, France, Germany
and Japan. Other trips are not lan-
guage oriented, such as the art his-
tory trip to Italy and the economics
tour of Europe.

“The six week spring term is often
a way of‘breaking the ice’ to acquire
a comfort level in a foreign culture,”
Greta McCaughrin, Instructor of Rus-
sian, said.

Whether students decide to par-
ticipate in a W&L program or not,
there is a great deal of preparation
required for any trip abroad. Applica-
tions, money, passports, travel ar-
rangements and packing are all po-
tential hassles that can be avoided
through careful planning. Credit for
off-campus study must also be pre-
approved, and students must remem-
ber to register for classes for the term
during which they will be abroad.

Students interested in studying
abroad will find the Office of Interna-
tional Education, located in Tucker
Hall, to be an invaluable resource. In
fact, the first step in planning for a
trip abroad is to consult with advi-
sors from that ofﬁce. They have the
knowledge and resources to help
make both the planning and experi-
ence of studying abroad more efﬁ-
cient and enjoyable.

“This was my first trip to Europe,
and it was challenging to try and pack
all I needed for seven weeks in a for-
eign country,” Fink said. “However,
W&L did a pretty good job of help-
ing us prepare.”

Despite the time and effort re-
quired to choose and to plan the right
trip, most W&L students who have
already studied abroad agree that it
is an experience that has helped them
both academically and culturally.

“It was really a mind-opening ex-
perience to study art, architecture and
history in Paris,” said Felton, who
studied and worked in France during
spring and summer this year.

“I was able to increase my lan-
guage skills and to learn about the
world of broadcast news when I stud-
ied and worked in France. I was com-

pletely emerged in the culture,” she
said.

Many students hope to improve
their language abilities by going
abroad, but studying in another coun-
try is notjust for language majors.

“I highly recommend studying
abroad, especially ifyou are majoring
in a foreign language. That is the only
way to train your ear to the language,”
said Fink, who participated in the W&L
trip to Spain in the spring. “But even if
you’re not a language major, the cul-
tural experience itself compliments
what you learn in any classroom and
gives you an appreciation of different
people.”

It is this cultural aspect of studying
abroad which students ﬁnd to be the
most valuable. The study abroad ex-
perience opens students’ minds to new
ideas and people. Many return to the
United States with a new perspective
and a greater appreciation for other cul-
tures and their own.

“Just to leave here and see how
things work in other countries, espe-
cially in a culture as different as the
Asian culture, really gives you a bet-
ter perspective on the world,” junior
Matt Seals said. “After going to Ja-
pan, I have such a great respect for the
Japanese people and their culture.”

“Everything I saw in Russia made
me feel more fortunate, and I realized
how much we take for granted,” junior
Stephanie McKnight said. “Despite the
conditions there, it is such a giving cul-
ture, and I truly loved the, people
there.” _,

Being part ofthe daily life ofa dif-
ferent culture is also rewarding because
it teaches students the real meaning of
being independent.

“The most important thing that I
learned on the trip was how to be truly

independent,” Fink said. “When you
are not fluent in a language and are
unfamiliar with aplace, then you really
understand what this means. Once you
begin to feel comfortable in a different
environment, it is really wonderful to
see on the faces

Courtesy of Catherine Ruth Felton

The 15 W&L students who participated in the 1998 Spring
Term Abroad Program in France were able to visit this cha-

teau in the Loire Valley.

four or ﬁve days without speaking any
English at all. But it isn’t necessarily
the experience with the language that

is so important, but the experience of

meeting new people.”

After studying abroad, students
return home and to W&L with many
wonderful memories.

“I was there [in France] for the
World Cup Finals,” Felton said. “That
night, after France beat Brazil, every-
one"Was‘crowded out on tIre‘Champs-

which is the day the eastern front
closed in World War II,” McKnight
said. “The Russians had lost a lot of
men in the war, and the people hon-
ored their dead at the tomb of the un-
known soldier. People were weeping
at the sight of the grave. It was the
most solemn moment of my life.”

If the accounts of W&L students
are any indication, the decision to
study abroad is a wise one. There is
so much to Ieam beyond the Colon-

Elysees. We were all so happy and sing»»»- -nade, and studying abroad can expand

ing, and I felt like I was French, too.”
“I was in Moscow for May Day,

your horizons in ways that are not
possible on campus.

of the people how
happy they are
that you have em-
braced their cul-
ture.”

“The trip deﬁ-
nitely helped me
to be more inde-
pendent because
I was there on my
own for a while,”

 

Jamaica
native Sonia '
Hall dis-
cusses
upcoming
plans for the
International
Club with
fellow mem-
ber Kelley

junior Bryson J0)“ Both
Datt, who studied agree that
Chinese and the I-Club is
taught English in important in
Taiwan this sum- increasing
rner, said. “Sl(:jme- diversity on
times wou go campus.

Photo by Christie Phillips, Photo Editor

International Club Broadens Horizons

by Erica Prosser
F EA TURES EDITOR

Some see Washington and Lee
University as a home away from home.
Others see it as a home really far away
from home.

No matter what point on the
globe you hail from, if you have an
interest in foreign culture, the Inter-
national Club may be for you.

“We’re about half American,”
club president and W&L senior Bill

 

Overbaugh

said of the  
nationali— >  ,

ties of club *-'  
members. " ‘ i "
“I’mAmeri- 3 ” g‘ .6!’
can, as ° 
president.” “’  

Hecame ''

to W&L from a tiny town in upstate
New York, but his interest in interna-
tional affairs brought him into contact
with the International Club.

“When I got here, I found an
amazing group of friends here at the
house andjoined at ﬁrst more for the
social aspect than anything else,” he
said. “I ﬁnd that although we aren’t
anti-Greek, the members of the club
create an environment which tends to
offer a bit of an alternative to the Greek
system, something which is nice for a
change from time to time.”

The International Club web page
lists goals for the club, which are:

“Helping the incoming student adjust
to the university and American ways
of life, reaching out to the Student
body to introduce them to the many
different cultures present on their
campus and establishing a university-
wide network of students and alumni
with international experience.”
Overbaugh said that the goals have
not exactly changed, but the functions
of the club are not what they used to
be.

“With the new Ofﬁce ofInterna—
tional Education, we have found . . .
we are no longer the sole support
group speciﬁcally for the International
Students, so we are channeling efforts
more into learning and teaching about
other cultures,” he said.

The club, which boasts 40 active
members so far, has always been the
source of interesting and multicultural
activities. This year’s plans are al-
ready underway, and Overbaugh said
he has a lot in mind for the club this
time around.

“We have been trying to organize
some interesting theme parties, Jamai-
can parties,” he said. “We had a
samba/salsa party last week.”

The group d0esn’tjust stop with
parties, though. Trips are also in the
forecast. The group will try to take
one or two cultural trips to Washing-
ton, D.C., each term, as well as trips to
more local locales like Natural Bridge
and The Museum of Frontier Culture.

Members have fun in the group,

but they learn, too. Overbaugh wants
to continue the tradition of weekly
meetings that feature cultural presen-
tations that educate members about
the fascinating aspects of other cul-
tures. The group has already had a
slide show, and he plans to encourage
international poetry readings, discus-
sions, origami demonstrations and
other displays of the world outside the
red brick and white columns of the Col-
onnade.

Some old favorites from the club
will return this year, too. The annual
Orphan’s Dinner, which is a dinner on
Parent’s Weekend for members with-
out parents here, will be held as usual.
The Evening Abroad will also return,
which is a chance for students to make
presentations about other cultures to
the W&L community. Past themes
have included Japanese tea ceremo-
nies, Judo demonstrations, German
techno lip synchs and Jamaican folk
songs.

With all these interesting events,
what does Overbaugh think is the best
thing about the club?

“The people, by far,” he said.
“Sometimes after working hours on an
event or meeting, I get so tired, but
then in the middle I look around at all
these faces, so excited about what’s
going on, and it makes all the hard
work worth it. That sounds really
cheesy, but hey! Everyone involved
is here because they really love it,
which makes events fun to organize,

and even more fun to participate in.”

The people are one reason why
Overbaugh is impressed with the club,
and with W&L as a whole, this year.

“Four years ago there were less
than a dozen international students,”
he said. “This year there are 23 in the
freshmen class. I think the school has
taken a really proactive move recently,
and they’re trying to increase our in-
ternational population to help the
school expand, and promote it over-
seas. I think they are doing an excel-
lentjob so far.”

Canjust anyonejoin in the Inter-
national Club activities? Well, not
quite.

“Almost all of our events are open
to anyone oncampus, so everyone is
welcome to come to our meetings,”
Overbaugh said. Active members must
pay dues, though, of $25 per year,
which helps cover transportation costs
for the club.

“We ﬁnd that most of our active.

members are freshmen and sopho-
mores,” Overbaugh said, “but we also
like to get upperclassmen involved.”

Need a slightly more cultural
“home away from home” than you had
before, orjust want to learn more about
other nationalities and cultures?

Anyone interested in joining the
International Club can get involved by
showing up for club meetings at the
International House at 7 p.m. on
Wednesdays or calling Overbaugh at
462-4723.

 

OCTOBER 5, 1998

PAGE 5

 
  

by Tom Wadlow

ONLINE EDITOR

When I was a kid, I lived in a small
town. It was so small that I used to

’ joke that ifyou drove by it at 25 miles

per hour and blinked you would prob-
ably miss it. There wasn’t much to
do around this town. In fact, there
was so little there that when my
friends and I would meet to try to find
somewhere to go and have a good
time (usually a 30 minute drive, at
least), we would all meet up in a park-
ing lot behind the auto parts store.
Despite the lack of entertainment,
there were a few redeeming qualities
about the area. The one I recall the
most now is a little shop called “The
Corner Store,” or to those who lived
near it, “Nancy’s” after the lady who
owns it. It is basically a little store in
the middle of nowhere where you can
get almost anything. And most im-
portantly, Nancy knows your name.
The memory may be a little
skewed with time, but I remember
tromping through the snow to cross
the three miles to Nancy’s to get some
vanilla extract for some cookies or
something that my mother was mak-

~ Gourmet Smokes, Beers,
y Peanuts Tucked Away
on Washington Street

ing for Christmas. My mother didn’t
even know if Nancy had vanilla ex-
tract, but she sent me through the
snow to get it anyway.

I eventually made it up to the store,
and when I walked in Nancy spotted
me and said, “Hi, Tommy, how you
doing?” I think I told her it was cold
or something, but more importantly,
did she have any vanilla extract? She
responded with, “Of course! What
kind of a store would this be if we
didn’t sell vanilla extract!” Well, I
got the vanilla and went home.

Many years passed and I eventu-
ally came to the small town of Lex-
ington, Virginia to seek a college de-
gree at a little school in this town
called Washington and Lee. As Ijust
noted, Lexington is a small town, but
it is appreciatively larger than the
town where I spent my formative
years. I made my way through fresh-
man year and into my sophomore
year without finding anything in Lex-
ington that came close to Nancy’s.

During my sophomore year, I was
wandering down Washington Street,
I believe in search of cigars other than
those you can buy at a gas station,
when I noticed a sign on the door of
a shop that said they sold cigars. I

 

Photo by Christie Phillips/Photo Editor

Chuck Smith, husband of Assistant Geology Professor Elizabeth
Knapp, is co-owner of Washington Street Purveyors.

remembered someone in my sociol-
ogy class mentioning the place to me
so I stopped in.

The store was small and was in what
must be one of the older buildings in
Lexington. There were three rooms,
the main one that you walk into from
the street had hot sauces and assorted
food stuffs, most of which I had never
seen before. The room to the left was
lined with beer and the room to the right
was lined with wine. Track lighting
attached to the floorboards of the ﬂoor
above the store lit the rooms, the light
bouncing off the brown, rough-hewn
exposed ceiling beams of the old build-
ing and coming to rest on a burgundy
ﬂoor and old-brick walls. Behind the
glass counter that held the cigars was a

well-used fireplace that now held the
credit card reader and printer on a table.
The store was packed to the ceiling with
various odds and ends ranging from re-
frigerators holding Pepsi and other so-
das to cases upon cases of wine lining
the ﬂoor. There were also racks of beer
I had never heard of and the ingredi-
ents to make your own beer if you so
desired. I noted the store in my mental
inventory, bought a cigar and left.

It wasn’t until about a year ago dur-
ing late October of my junior year that
I recalled the little store on Washing-
ton Street, because now I was looking
for a bottle of wine other than those you
can buy at a grocery store. I remem-
bered the room of wine, so I stopped
in, bought some wine and had a brief

 

 

 

FRANK HOBBS EXHIBIT OPENS IN C-SCHOOL

Paintings, drawings and prints by Frank Hobbs will be on exhibit in the
Williams School of Commerce, Economics and Politics from Oct. 8 to Nov.
17. There will be a reception 5 p.m. Thursday in the Williams School.

Hobbs resides in Staunton, Va., where he teaches at the Beverley Street
Studio School, of which he is a founder and cu1"I‘eIIt‘president. He is ‘currently
‘serving as a part-time assistant professor of art at Washington and Lee, as
well as an adjunct professor of art at the Virginia Military Institute.

CHORUS GIVES FALL CONCERT

The Washington and Lee Fall Choral Concert will take place next Tuesday
'3 8 p.m. in the Great Hall of the Science Addition.

Under the direction of Dr. Gordon Spice, professor of music, the University
Chamber Singers will perform a choral selection from each of the centuries end-
ing in “49” in honor of the University's founding date of 1749. While the work
may not have been composed in that year, it would have been current at that
time. Selections include John Dunstable’s “Quam pulchra es,” Jaques
Arcadelt’s “Margot labourez les vignes” and Handel's “Blessed be God.”

Scott Williams, music director, leads the University chorus in “Music of
our Time,” featuring works by Sondheim and Gershwin, as well as an avant—
garde selection by Scandinavian composer Egil Hovland and a stirring spiri-
tual, “Elijah Rock," newly recomposed by Moses Hogan.

PULITZER PRIZE WINNER READS POETRY

Henry Taylor, 1986 winner of the Pulitzer Prize for
“The Flying Change,” will give a poetry reading in
Northen Auditorium 7 p.m. Monday. Taylor's visit is
sponsored by the Glasgow Endowment Program.

His books of poems include “The Horse Show at
Midnight,” “An Afternoon of Pocket Billiards,” “The
Flying Change” and “Understanding Fiction: Poems,
1986-1996.” He has published three other books and
he received a 1998 Individual Artist Fellowship from
the Virginia Commission for the Arts.

 

Taylor.

DEANE REVEALS SECRETS OF IRELAND, ENGLAND, SCOTLAND

Seamus Deane, the Donald and Marilyn Keough Professor of Irish Studies
at the University of Notre Dame, will deliver the Shannon-Clark Lecture in
English at 8 p.m. next Monday in Northen Auditorium. A reception will be
held in the Boatwright Room immediately following the presentation.

Deane’s lecture is titled, “Secret Histories: Irish, English, Scottish.” In ad-
dition to his teaching duties at Notre Dame, Deane served as the director of
the Field Day Theatre and Publishing Company and as editor of the Field Day
Anthology of Irish Writing.

He is the author of “Celtic Revivals: Essays in Modern Irish Literature,
1880-1980, “A Short History of Irish Literature and The French Revolution”
and “Enlightenment in England, 1789-1832.” In addition to six volumes of
poetry, Deane recently published a prize-winning novel “Reading in the Dark.”

MUJERES ESPANOLAS, EL FEMINISMO Y EL QUIJOTE

The Department of Romance Languages will present a talk by Spanish
author, editor and literary critic Lidia Falcon in Northen Auditorium on
Monday, Oct. 19 at 7 p.m. There will be a brief reception after the talk.

For more information, contact Ellen Mayock 463-8816. Visit the Falcon
lecture website at http://madison.wlu.edu/~mayocke/LFalcon.htm

NEW ISSUE OF SHENANDOAH Now AVAILABLE

The fall issue of “Shenandoah, The Washington and Lee Review” is now
available for $5 at the University Bookstore. This issue of the award-winning
literary magazine features work by Judy Jashinsky, Scott Ely, Mary Yukari
Waters, Mary Oliver, Billy Collins, Robert Morgan, Reginald Shepherd, Su-
san Hahn and many others.

AUDITION FOR THE SECRET SERVICE

Roles are available for seven males and four females in the upcoming Lenfest
production of William Gillette's “Secret Service.” Auditions will be held 4
p.m.- 6 p.m. Tuesday and Thursday in the Johnson Theatre. Scripts are avail-
able from the theater department secretary.

WOOD DELIVERS HOLMES DEVISE LECTURE

Gordon Wood, the University Professor of History at Brown University,
will deliver the Oliver Wendell Holmes Devise Lecture 1 p.m. Friday in the
Moot Court Room of Sydney Lewis Hall on the campus of Washington and
Lee University. Wood's talk is titled "The Origins of Judicial Review Revis-
ited, or How the Marshall Court Made More out of Less." The public is in-
vited to attend.

INDIAN MUSICIANS PLAY IN LEE CHAPEL

The International Performing Arts Series at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity will present an evening of classical Indian music in Lee Chapel next
Wednesday at 7:30 p.m., featuring Shubhendra Rao on the sitar, Partho Sarathy
on the sarod and Tanmoy Bose on the tabla.

Rao is among the foremost of the new generation of Indian classical in-
strumentalists. His concerts are noted for their sensitivity, aesthetic appeal
and musical insight.

Sarathy, who is from Calcutta, is a gold
medalist ofthe All India Radio's national
competition and has performed exten-
sively across Europe, Russia and North
America. Bose, also from Calcutta, has
made a name for himself as an accom-
plished tabla player, and has also traveled
internationally to perform.

Rao and Sarathy.

FILM SOCIETY PRESENTS “THE SWEET HEREAETER”

The next presentation of the Washington and Lee Film Society will be the
unsettling drama "The Sweet Hereafter" (Canada, 1997) directed by Atom Egoyan.

Screenings will be at 7:30 p.m. this Friday and Saturday in the Troubadour
Cinema. As always, there is no charge for admission, although contributions
are welcome.

Atom Egoyan's shattering film, based on Russell Banks‘ novel, concerns a
small Canadian town buried in grief after 14 children are killed in a school bus
accident. To the town comes a quiet lawyer (Ian Holm), who seeks to repre-
sent the residents in a class-action suit.

Critic Richard Schickel in Time magazine called “The Sweet Hereafter” a
“solemn, subtly structured, beautifully, and utlimately hypnotic movie.”

Roger Ebert wrote, “This is not one of those [John] Grisham ﬁlms in which
the lawyers battle injustice and the creaky system somehow works . . . [this is]
an unﬂinching lament for the human condition.”

“The Sweet Hereafter” won the Jury Prize at the Cannes Festival and was
an Oscar nominee for best director and best adapted screenplay.

VOGEL SPEAKS ON RESPONSIBILITY

Lawrence Vogel, associate professor of philosophy at Connecticut College,
will present a talk next Monday as part of Washington and Lee's responsibility
lecture series. Vogel’s lecture, “Jewish Philosophies After Heidegger: Levinas
and Jonas on Responsibility” will be held in the Science Addition, Room A214,
at 7:30 p.m.

Vogel received his bachelor's degree from Vassar College in 1975 and his
doctorate in philosophy from Yale University in 1989. He previously taught and
lectured at Yale University and Vassar College and he received a National En-
dowment for the Humanities Summer Institute Fellowship in 1990.

LEE CHAPEL HOLDS MEMORIAL SERVICE FOR LEE

A memorial service marking the 128th anniversary of Robert E. Lee's death
will be held at 12:05 p.m. next Monday in Lee Chapel on the Washington and
Lee campus. Lee served as president of the University from 1865 until his
death in 1870.

Gary W. Gallagher, professor of history at the University of Virginia will
be the guest speaker for the service. The Liberty Hall Volunteers re-enact-
ment group will participate, as will the University Chamber Singers. Earlier
in the day, at 9:30 a.m., the bells of Lee Chapel will toll, commemorating the
hour of Lee's death in 1870. I

A proliﬁc writer and expert on the Civil
War and Reconstruction era, Gallagher's
three most recent books are “Lee and His
Generals in War and Memory,” “The
Spotsylvania Campaign” and “The Confed-
erate War.” He appears regularly on the Arts
and Entertainment Network’s series “Civil
War Journal.” Gallagher also received the
1998 Laney Prize for the best book in the
field of Civil War history and shared the
1998 Lincoln Prize.

   

W . th I I - —e-mail General Notes to phi@wlu.edu
rapping e co umns.

 

conversation with the guy standing be-
hind the counter. We traded names and
I left the store with my purchase.

I think I went back a couple of
times after that but I remember going
there one particular time shortly af-
ter my first visitjunior year. I parked
my car a short distance away and
tromped up the short hill to the store
through the cold of the encroaching
and soon to be incumbent winter. I
opened the door and walked in. The
store was pleasantly warm after the
biting chill of the windblown street
outside and there was classical music
playing softly in the background. I
started heading toward the back
where the wine was when I heard,
“Hey, Tom. What’s up?”

The guy who spoke out the brief
greeting was Chuck Smith, owner of
Washington Street Purveyors, the
store I was in now. Chuck found what
I needed in the wine section of the
store and I left.

I went back with increasing fre-
quency after that, finding that he rarely
didn’t have the wine I wanted, and if
he didn’t, he could point out a compa-
rable one with great accuracy. The store
stopped being named “Washington
Street Purveyors” in my mind and took
on the name that many in Lexington
know it by: “Chuck’s place” or “Chuck’S.”

Chuck opened the store in July of
1996 along with co-owner James
Owens because, he said, that he “real-
ized that Lexington didn’t have a wine
shop.” The large volume and selection

of wine that ranges from $4.99 a
bottle to much more pricey vintages
is not the only thing Washington
Street Purveyors has to offer.

There are also specialty, imported
and microbrewed beers, brewing in-
gredients and tools, fine cigars, ciga-
rettes ranging from American Spirits
to Dunhills, hot sauces, cheeses,
handmade potato chips, shirts with
chili peppers on them, boxer shorts
with chili peppers on them, cook-
books with titles like “Cooking in the
Nude” and every kind of peanut that
you can possibly imagine, just to name
a small portion of things in the store.

Despite this large inventory,
Chuck thinks the most appealing
thing about the store is the atmo-
sphere. “I think a lot of [the appeal]
is the setting, the whole building.” He
says, “It’s kind ofa feel ofbeing in a
[wine] cellar.”

It’s hard finding a place like
Nancy’s. The type of small store that
carries a little bit of everything with
a proprietor who knows your name is
slowly being replaced with large
stores that carry too much of every-
thing at the expense of quality. They
don’t know who you are and never
will. Chuck's place has done a pretty

goodjob of replacing Nancy’s while
I’ve been in Lexington with one mi-
nor exception - I don’t think he has
any vanilla extract.

Online Editor Tom Wadlow now
works at Washington Street Purveyors.

 

Washington & Lee-Oxford
Exchange Program

Under this program University College at the
University ofoxford hosts one wasington and Lee student
each year for a full-year pron-am of study in some area in

which a tutor at University College is availablethe program

is designed for the selected student to study abroad airing
his or her junior year. Current sophomores who are
interested in applying for this program may contact:

Profemor Carl Kaiser
Williams School of Commerce, Room 313
463-8517

 

SPRING BREAK Cancun, Florida, Etc.
Best Hotels, Parties, Prices. Book Early and Save!
Earn Money & Free Trips! Campus Reps / Organizations Wanted
Inter-Campus Programs 1 -800-321-60 I 3 www.icpt.com

GIVE US TIME TO REPAY
YOUR LOAN.

After just three years in

the Army, your college loan
could be a thing of the past.

Under the Army’ s Loan

Repayment program, each

year you serve on active duty
reduces your indebtedness by
one-third or $1,500, whichever
amount is greater, up to a
$65,000 limit.

This offer applies to Perkins Loans, Stafford Loans
and certain other federally insured loans which are not
in default.

And this is just the ﬁrst of many beneﬁts the Army
will give you. Get the whole story from your Army

 540-886-2651
ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE?

 

www.goarmy.com

 

 

PAGE 6

SPORTS

OCTOBER 5, 1998

Homecoming ’98: Generals Get Stung

iYellow Jackets quarterback
‘Brian Partlow throws ﬁve
touchdown passes in 34-6

fvictory over W&L

_ by Brendan Harrington
1; SPORTS EDITOR

 The Randolph-Macon Yellow Jackets used an explo-
;5 sive passing attack and suffocating defense to down Wash-
 ington and Lee 34-6 Saturday afternoon at Wilson Field.
if Junior quarterback Brian Partlow, a transfer from William
 and Mary, threw ﬁve touchdown passes in what turned
~: out to be a dismal homecoming for the Generals.
1? “The effort was there,” head coach Frank Miriello said
.5 following the game. “[Randolph-Macon] just had a little
33 more talent then we thought.”
i The Generals (1-3, 0-2 ODAC) had a number of bad
 breaks early on in the game that put them in a hole that
 they would never be able to dig themselves out of. A pen-
'23 alty for having too many men on the ﬁeld set up the Yellow
1; Jackets first score, a three-yard touchdown pass from
,1 Partlow to receiver Michael Becker with 4:51 left in the first
 quarter. An unsuccessful fake punt led to the next
it Randolph-Macon touchdown, this time a four-yard touch-
 down reception byjunior wide receiver Sean Eaton, with
i: 13:40 left in the second quarter.
ii “We were substituting a lot of guys in and out and mix-
 ups happen sometimes,” Miriello said, referring to the costly
;i penalty. “As for the fake punt, they just didn’t buy it. 1
 still think it was a good call.”
i, The Generals managed to score their only points of the
i2 game in the second quarter as Andy Vendig kicked two
3 ﬁeld goals, one from 32 yards and the other from 37 yards.
3.‘ Partlow threw his third touchdown of the half with 2:54 left
3 in the second quarter, a 6-yard strike to Jon Wells, and the
 Yellow Jackets took a 21-6 lead into the locker room.
if Partlow threw two more touchdown passes in the
'1 second half, a two-yard throw to Tom Bush and a 24-
 yard strike to Eaton. Partlow finished the game 25-51
;§ for 342 yards and five touchdowns. Partlow did throw
"3 three interceptions, but the Generals were unable to do
 anything with them, going three and out each time they
 forced a turnover.

“The turnovers we forced didn’t lead to any points and
 that hurts,” said Miriello. “Against a team of that caliber,
;i you can’t afford to not take advantage of their mistakes.”

Hollister llovcy/Executive Editor

Freshman defensive back Jack Arnold prevents a Randolph Macon player from catching a pass in
Saturday’s homecoming battle. The Yellow Jackets did manage to score other touchdowns, however.

The Generals struggled offensively all day long and
could only muster up 59 rushing yards and 205 total yards.
Junior quarterback Christian Batcheller was 22-38 for 146
yards and had no turnovers or interceptions. Sophomore
running back Marc Watson picked up 52 yards rushing
on 12 carries.

Game Statistics
SCORE BY QUARTERS 1 2 3 4 RUSHING: RMC-Antoine Ransom 12-54,
Chad McMillan 6-29, Brian Partlow 6-20,
Randolph M300“ (3'1) 7 14 6 7*‘ 34 Andre Carter 3-10, Tom Bush 2-6, Steve Ott
Washington & Lee (1-3) 0 6 0 0 _ 5 1-2. WLU—Marc Watson 12-52, Hanley
Sayers 7-18, Kyle Overstreet 1-3, Carter
Lee 1-0, Doug Williams 1-minus 5,C.
Batcheller 3-minus 9.
RMC WLU PASSING: RMC-Brian Partlow 25-51-3-
342, Patrick Bates 1-3-0-3. WLU—C.
First DOWNS 23 14 Batcheller 22-38-0-146, Russell Wrenn 0-1-
Rushes-Yds (Net) 30-121 25-59 0-0,
Passing Yds (Net) 345 146 RECEIVING: RMC-Michael Becker 8-97,
Passes A'ft'C0m'1nl 54-25-3 39-22-0 Sean Eaton 5-80, Tom Bush 4-68, Jon Wells
Total Offensive Plays-Yds 84-466 64-205 4-56, Antoine Ransom 2-30, Chris Valis 1-6,
Fumble Returns-Yds 0-0 0-0 Chad McMillan 1-5, Justin Basdikis 1-3.
Punt Returns-Yds 4-9 2-8 WLU-Chas Chastain 4-44, Scott Moses 4-
Kl°k0ff Retums-Yds 2-37 6- 1 07 34, Marc Watson 4-8, Wesley Hardy 3-19,-
Interception Retums-Yds 0-0 3-3 J.T. Malatesta 3-10, David Ritgzhey 2-19,
punts (N0- AVeT3ge) 4-25.3 8-38.8 Scott Humphreys 1-13, Hanley Sayers 1-
Fumbles-Lost 0-0 0-0 minus 1_
Penalties-Yds 6-56 7-64 INTERCEPTIONS: RMC-None. WLU-
Possession Time 31:14 19:29 Will Baker 1-0, Jack Arnold 1-3, Keith
Sacks By Number-Yds 1-8 1-8 Prusek 1.0.

Men’s Soccer

Up and Down

by Tod Williams

STA FF WRITER

Homecoming weekend has always
been special at Washington and Lee,
and the men’s soccer team surely did
its part to make the weekend memo-
rable. On Saturday the Generals
notched their ﬁrst Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference victory of the sea-
son and then followed up on Sunday
by winning a circus ofa game in over-
time.

Sunday’s game against Savannah
College of Art and Design proved to
be quite a case of Dr. Jeckyl and Mr.
Hyde. The first halfended in an un-
eventful 0-0 tie, but the second half
proved to be a little more interesting
than the first.

At the 51 :50 mark, W&L’s Jon
Wright, a senior forward, scored the
games first goal off of an assist from
fellow senior Mikel Parker. When the
Generals returned down the ﬁeld less

2

c

 Sophomore defender Jacek Mucha strikes a ball in Sunday’s
1: contest against Savannah A&D. The Generals won 4-3 in OT.

it Hollister Hovey/Executive Editor

than one minute later, Jamie Parker
scored the game’s second goal, his

See SOCCER, page 7

“We couldn’t generate any offense at all, nothing
seemed to work," Miriello said. “They just overpow-
ered us.”

The Generals try to get back on the winning track next
Saturday as they travel to North Carolina to take on
Davidson. ,_,

Women’s Soccer

by Frances Groberg

SPORTS EDITOR

This week, the Generals proved that they can indeeed
pull out the tough victory. In fact, they did it twice.

On Saturday, the team gave up its first goals of the sea-
son to Guilford, yet managed to net the 4-3 homecoming
victory to remain undefeated. The win boosted the team’s
record to 6-0.

Senior captain Karin Treese opened the scoring at 5:56,
heading a ball past Guilford goalkeeper Jenny Akman. Just
32 seconds later, Treese schooled Akman once again, scor-
ing from 30 yards out to put the Generals up 2-0.

The Quakers, however, did not let the score stand.
Guilford forward Ingrid Werge became the first player to
score against Washington and Lee this season at the 8:12
mark, and Amy Evans helped herteam to tie the Generals 2-
2 before halftime.

Five minutes into the second half, freshman forward Kate
Bidwell put the Generals up once again with her fourth goal
of the season. Sophomore forward Lindsey Williams broad-
ened the gap again in the 73rd minute with her first goal of
the season, giving W&L a 4-2 lead.

That goal proved crucial to the Generals’ victory, as
Quaker forward Alison Schott’s penalty kick in the 76th
minute put her team one goal closer to tying W&L.

Despite the close call, the Generals were able to keep

V..ba11sﬁ11   
- Jumping High

by Steele Cooper '1 t . I. . 

Sm? WRITER

W&L was on the roadbnce againfon 'I‘liursday.._/

V traveling to ODAC rival Lynchburg College. The Gen-5 ” 4 -

erals defeated Lynchburg in a fivegame match-(15-7’,
i 11-15, 6-15, 15-5, 15-7). This win broughttheir record 
to 13-2, and 5-0 ODAC, keeping them on’ track to -
qualify for the NCAA national tournament. W&L is 
currentlyrankedi ﬁfth in the.South Region; the top § 1
regionally ranked teams at the endof the regular _sea-
son will advance toltheltournament. 1 1* ' '
The second ‘ and third, games against ,  sq
Lynchburg were this week’s tough spots for th_efCzen- _ 3
erals. “We were like football players playingilvollei ‘M
. ball,” Freshman Ricka Hildebrandjsaid. ‘W&L had a
difficult time executing their passes duringthose 
losses, but pulled together asfa team to finish gt
match in two impressive fourth andiﬁﬁth games. 8 ,
Freshman starter LeeICharl5,onet  inseveg
big blocks  the fourthgand ,ﬁfth.to‘?hel,p slviutiqdo, ,
, Lynchburg. SheAflsiconﬁdent"el29ut ,thie»;prospectsf;,fo'
a national bid. .<“We:liave to keep on playing   q
q and winning’, so we  gojito ‘hejytournament 1 ‘
Charbonet asserted ‘ ; 3 _. ’ \ qfrj    5 "
On : '1',uesday,7W&l§{ efféated‘ oDAc"ri.ya
Bddgewater,Co:1egem,dnee§émes(1-5-1.0, .15;-.i1;1é.
12). Bridgevyater ha,s‘trac,iiti‘onaily,be'ena very ton 3
opponent for, the ‘Generals, and,,the§win lielpedth
- tearn’s‘conﬁdence. ,     ;: j  j: .2 5   ,
The Generals were once again strong behind Fres f-
man Lindsayikuckeit. Ruckert delivered 19 killsan; p  1;
nine digs againstBridgewater, which further /estaqb-V ‘
‘ lished her presence onithe team and initlie--confeiy I
ence.»“Everyone on this g.te,iiiI‘1.1 Plays strongly when .3
given a chance to step up and piay,”7Ru§kert said 1'
Sophomore,setter Katherine- Kline helped tos
the victory with 21tiassisﬁ,»Klineiunderstands the
valry between Bridgewater and W&L.”‘fThe‘ win’ In
three » games boosted our sel,'f-conf'iden'ce- because. .«
previousgamesihave been really tough,” lélinejsaidf , 
Tomorrow night W&L will host Emory andjHenry'-Q 1
in the Warner Center at 6:30.;Tl1ey look to continue‘ 1
this winningjstreak and workjcloserﬂto their bid,jforthej4

 

  

 
 
  
 
    

national championships;  

 

Stays Unbeaten

Guilford from scoring again, and the buzzer sounded with
the Generals up 4-3. .

Junior goalkeeper Stephanie McKnight called the gan as
“our most rewarding win of the season. The whole team;
was really solid. From here on out, the season will pick up.
lt’s crunch time.”

Assistant Coach Lorraine Taurassi agreed. “The abil-
ity [to win tough games] is definitely there. This week,
they got a chance to prove it.”

W&L pulled out another close victory last Thursday
against Sweet Briar, collecting their ﬁfth shutout of the
season 1-0.

Though the Generals posted 36 shots against the op-
ponent, only one shot -was able to find the net. Sopho-
more midﬁelder Shana Levine scored the critical goal 24
minutes into the first half, assisted by freshman midﬁelder
Drew Powers and sophomore midﬁelder Liz Olson.

“We played down to Sweet Briar’s level,” Levine said.
“We kept shooting from the outside, even though they
weren’t working. We didn’t adjust very well.”

The shutout, W&L’s ﬁfth consecutive of the season,
tied a team record set in 1990 and again in 1993.

The Generals will try to go 7-0 as they host arch-rival
Roanoke College this Thursday at the Liberty Hall Fields
starting at 4:00 p.m.

“We beat them in overtime last year, and we’re expect-
ing a really tough game,” Levine said.

Hollister Hovey/Executive Editor

Sophomore defender Samantha Garbisch trips a Guilford player as she makes a play for the ball.
The Generals pulled out the tough 4-3 victory over the Quakers during homecoming weekend.

 

  
   
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

...-..;. ..-.,_-............. —.‘..............._.... .r.-...

 

OCTOBER 5, 1998

SPQRTS

 

PAGE 7

SOCCER CONTINUED FROM PAGE 6

36th career goal and 78th career point. Matt Wilson’s assist to Parker was
his first oftwo on the day. The Generals would hold their 2-0 lead for over 30
minutes.

After the Generals’ sudden offensive burst, the game quickly returned to its
previously uneventful state until the 72nd minute when Generals sophomore
Scott Lofranco had a collision with the Bees’ Roddy Burgess. The two, who
bumped heads in a mid-air struggle for the ball, were stunned as they lay on the
ground. A trainer was called out to check on both players, but Burgess jumped
up and refused to be examined. Play resumed afterwards when both players
seemed to be ﬁne.

Approximately six minutes later, at 79:30, Burgess, who had been substi-

1 tuted, went into a violent seizure that lasted more than a minute while lying on

the ground in front of SCAD’s benches. Play was stopped as a trainer and a
doctor from the stands examined Burgess. Burgess was wrapped in blankets
and jackets, and an ambulance was called.

Lofranco was relatively unfazed by the accident. “I didn’t realize it, but I
must have lost half of a second,” he said.

The seizure obviously affected both teams very deeply, according to senior
Sam Chase.

“We gathered together and said a prayer for him,” Chase said. “It really
makes you realize how important a game is when the kid’s on the side almost
dying.”

Play resumed approximately ten minutes later, and the incident proved to
be quite a turning point in the game, Chase said.

“That really took the wind out of our sails,” he said.

The Bees’ Marten Magnusson scored an unassisted goal just over three
minutes after play resumed at 82:39. The Bees scored again on their next trip
down, just one minute and fourteen seconds later. Alan Huijsmans Sent an
unassisted shot into the net from 20 yards out on the right side.

The game didn’t remain tied for very long, though. Chase, W&L’s senior
scoring phenom, sent one in at 85:43 off an assist from Wilson to give the
Generals a 3-2 lead.

The game then returned to a 3-3 tie less than 20 seconds later when SCAD’s
James Stokeld scored another unassisted Bee goal at 86:02.

W&L had two close shots at ending the game as the clock ticked down.
Sophomore forward Jon Wilson almost shot one by SCAD keeper Jonathan
Ward at 87:30.

On a fast break only 28 seconds later Parker was tripped from behind by
SCAD player Freddie Bennett. Bennett received only a yellow card, much to
the dismay of W&L coach Rolf Piranian and the rest ofthe team.

The Generals were forced to enter their second sudden death overtime game
ofthe season as regulation play ended with the game still tied at three.

Little time was wasted, though, as Chase ended the game 1:13 minutes into
overtime with an unassisted shot from 35 yards out, giving the Generals a 4-3
win. Chase now has 105 career points.

SCAD head coach Neil Cunningham said he wasn’t quite Sure about
the happenings ofthe game, which sent the buzzing Bees to 4-4-1 on
the season.

“W&L came out very strong and caught us on our heels,” Cunningham
said. “But once we got into it, it was like anything you can do we can do
better.”

Cunningham said he was very impressed by Chase’s scoring attack.

“That number 13 had a great game and especially a great winning goal,” he
said.

Jordan Ginsberg, a sophomore, spent the entire game in front of the

goal for the Generals, his first start on the year. “I wasjust glad to step in
there and help out,” Ginsberg said. “The first 80 minutes were great, but
I got kind of nervous in the last 10.”

Ginsberg was playing in place of the usual keeper E.J. Murphy, who sat out
on Sunday due to a sprained ankle. Murphy said he was not worried about
thejob Ginsberg could do.

“I have more confidence in him than in me sometimes,” Murphy said.

W&L head coach Rolf Piranian was positive after the game. “I’m really
proud of the guys,” he said.

The Generals first conference win of the season came on Saturday, at the
heart ofthe homecoming festivities. W&L dominated Guilford College 5-1 at
Liberty Hall Fields.

The Generals never had a problem generating offense. Chase opened up
the scoring only 5:24 into the game. That goal sent Chase over the 100-point
mark for his career.

The intimidating Quakers tied the game up shortly after at 11:30 when
senior Owen Finberg scored. '

Just seven minutes later, Parker reclaimed the lead for good for the Gener-
als. Senior defensive standout Mikel Parker scored his first goal of the sea-
son sandwiched between a pair of Matt Wilson shots. The two goals were
the ﬁrst career goals for the freshman. W&L outshot the Quakers on the game
18-4.

The only dark spot in the Generals’ week came on Wednesday as they fell
to the Eastern Mennonite Royals in Harrisonburg.

The first half passed without a goal, much like Sunday’ s game. The Royals
were first to get on the board as Jamie Miller scored with an assist from Aaron
Buckwalter at 65:5 1 into the game. Several minutes later, EMU player Cedric
Steiner passed the ball to Jon Moyer, who was standing just inside the pen-
alty box. Moyer’s goal put EMU up 2-0, a lead that would prove sufficient for
the win.

W&L senior forward Jon Wright posted the Generals’ only goal ofthe
day in the game’s 85th minute. The Royals outshot the Generals 10-9 in
the contest.

The Generals, who now stand 4-2-1, 1-2-1 in ODAC play, will host Lynchburg
College on Wednesday at 4 p.m. at the Liberty Hall Fields.

This Week

TUESDAY
Volleyball vs. Emory & Henry 6:30 p.m.

WEDNESDAY
Men's Soccer vs. Lynchburg 4:00 p.m.

THURSDAY

Women’s Soccer vs. Roanoke 4:00 p.m.
Volleyball @ Sweet Briar

SATURDAY

Football @ Davidson
Men’s Soccer @ Hampden-Sydney
Women’s Soccer @ Emory
Men’s, Women’s X—country @ D Il-111 Championships

 

IM’s Gear Up For ’98”q’.-

by Carter Thomas
STAFF WRITER

 

I Let the games begin! The 1998-1999 Washington and Lee, I 
University fall Intramural season is off and  to  ‘

. start, opening with Men’ s Touch Football and Women’syBasket
“ball which begins October 13. The men’ s football  began
r September 24 and will continue through October 22, as}.t1"io“
. beastly fraternity brothers, independents, and law  1',
kick, pass  punt their way to victory. ' “  '6

SCHEDULE  F

Racquetball: F
Mar. 8 ' ‘  .
Swimming:  225’;
Turkey Trot: Mar. 12‘

    
   
  
 
  
   
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
  
   
 

-,‘-FALL-WOMEN   Q

. Basketball:.Oct. 13-30
,9 Tennis: Nov. 4-18

. FALL—MEN Bowling: Mar. 21j-Apr
Football: Sept. 24-Oct. 22 Wrestling‘ M?‘ 10:1
Golf: Oct. 5-27

. _ 5 SPRING-WOIYIENF
, Tennis: Oct. 26-Nov. 19 ’ 5

Indoor Soccer: Nov. 4-19 if/idooili ?8°§;r:,
Ping Pong: Nov. 1-Dec. 10 are ' »  '
W'INTER-WOMEN SPRING-MEN  :
Bowling: Dec’ L19 Ult. Frisbee: Apr. :2

May 6

Volleyball: Jan. 27-Feb. 1 1

~ WINTER-MEN
Volleyball: Jan 18-26
Squash: Jan. 27-Feb 8
Basketball: Feb. 23-Mar. 25

Softball: May,9~23y I
Track: May 14 2 I I

Please note that an extremely important meeting will be held,
Tuesday, October 6th at 7:30 p_.m. in the Warner Center,C1ass~'i 3
room (500) for any and all sororities, women law students,  ’
independent women interested in Intramurals thisyear. 

. please keep in mind that individual sports and activities 
: scheduled as interest and desire is shown. So, as thejl 998 9”
Intramural season kicks off, be sure to get involved”and;b,ring*
your friends, for it’ S going to be more fun thanryoifll 

 

 

We invite you to explore AnoIyst coreer opportunities with

First Union Investment Bonking.

\/\/oshington ond Lee University recruiting dotes:

Compony Intormotion Session:

Tuesdoy, October 8, 1998

First Union/V\/heot First Union Interviews:

\/\/ednesdoy, October 21, 1998

Bovvles HoIIovveII Conner:

Tuesdoy, October 20, 1998
First Union/\/\/heot First Union Spring Interviews’:

TBA

Pleose contoct the Coreer Development Otiice

ot 463-8595 ior more detoiIs.

  rigﬁﬁiv

Capital Markets Group

The combined strengths oi

Bovvles HoIIovveII Conner & Co, First Union Copitol /\/\orI<ets
ond \/\/heot First Union

O I 998 I-'[I'.rz‘ L'z1z'r2/1 (.'n/'/mi"/in?)/1. Firttr ("Mimi (.'ii/2[m/ .1[/17'/i’l’[.\' and 11'/./rm‘ I-'1'/'.ti* Unimi tll'L‘ r7’ii’i.tinI1.\‘ i{f'l1’/11711‘ Fi7'.rr Si‘rIiI'z'tz'i".\'. I211‘.

1>’niii/zit Hri//nii'i‘// (.'um1i'I‘ C“ (To. [X1111 ri_/_'fi'/111/1‘ rg/'11’/mil Hzzri .S'i'i‘12/‘i'Ii‘i:r, Int‘.

OBJECTIVE
INDUSTRY
CAPITAL
RIGOROUS

IN - DEPTH
TRANSACTION

GLOBAL

SKILLED

ENDURING

 

PAGE 8

Humor Page

LAST WORD

 
  

OCTOBER 5, 1998

The Stuff Dreams are Made Of

by Brian Prisco
PH] MOVIE our

.1. 2 3 4.35

(WORTH THE FULL PRICE OF
ADMISSION)

“What Dreams May Come” is pos-
sibly the greatest love story ever told.
Most people might feel this a comment
that may be stretching the limits. For
them, I say go see this movie. Ifthis
movie doesn’t move you, then you are,
to quote the film, “a soulless bitch"
(this includes men) and should con-
sider erasing yourself from the human
race. Call me, I will mail you the gun.

The movie works on every level
that most love stories crash and burn
on. Level one, the cast. Most movies
that deal with love star Johny Hi-l’m-
Good-Looking-This-Is-The-Last-
Movie-You-Will-Ever-See-Me-In-
Once-My-Good—Looks-Fade and
Suzie Whee-I-Can’t—Act-Look-At-
My—Hooters. Their dialogue and
screen presence make you want to pro-
jectile vomit.

Not the case here, folks. It stars
Robin Williams (Jesus, people, ifyou
don’t know what movies he’s been in,
crawl out from under your rock) and
Annabella Sciora (“The Hand That
Rocks the Cradle”), who play a hus-
band and wife who have been through
more than most people go through in
a lifetime. Both stretch the acting range
from doting and playful to morose and
melancholy, and touch every base in
between with a grace and skill that can-
not be matched. They are supported
by Cuba Gooding, Jr. (“Jerry
Maguire”) as a guardian angel/guide
and Max Von Sydow (“The Exorcist”)
as a scholar who adds to this already
dynamic bunch.

The second level this movie works
on is speed. Hey, James Cameron, get

 

Crossword Puzzle

out your notebook. You can make a
successful romantic story in under two

 

I’m sick to death of it. This movie
throws the couple into the vividly

hours. This painted can-
movie hasNO vas of the
slow moments. Divine Com-
It leaps from edy. From
memory to heaven to
memory and hell,Christy
keeps the ac- (Williams)
tion moving. chases for
Most romantic his wife
movies drag when every-
on like a onetellshim

Volkswagen full of morbidly obese
Sumo wrestlers carrying bricks uphill
in a stiffwind. Not here, folks.
Thirdly, landscape and scenery.
Your average love story is set in a cafe,
or a beach, or the city. Blah blah blah,

to leave her be. This movie makes “Ti-
tanic” look like it was done in a bath-
tub. There are no words to explain
what you see. It is a technical mas-
terpiece that ranks up there with the
moment Dorothy opens the doors

to Auntie Em’s cottage and be-
holds Oz in all its technicolor
grandeur. You have never seen
anything like this movie, and
probably never will.

This movie will make you
laugh, cry, and fall in love. That
is such a blase cliche it makes
me nauseous, which is the other
thing the movie stays away from.
There are more surprises and
twists and turns than you know
what to do with. Even if you can
see the end coming or can pre-
dict what happens next, you just
don’t care.

So, my final advice to you:
drop your books and go see this
movie. Do not make the mistake

    
      
   
  
   
   
 
    
 

of waiting until it comes out on
video, you need to see this film on a
big screen to truly appreciate it. It

   
   
  
    
     
    
 

Robin Williams stretches his acting muscles in the true epic love
story of the 90’s, “What Dreams May Come.”

will amaze you; it’s a feel-good
tearjerker. This movie will change
your perspective on life.

A Beginner’s Guide to Shakespeare

by Kevin McManemin

OUT OF ME HEAD

Because we want to inform as well
as entertain here at the Last Word, to-
day we present, very seriously and
without sarcasm or silly jokes, the first
part of our very serious series “Pass-
ing Your Required English Courses.”
Today we’ll be looking at that drama-
turgical deity himself: Billy
Shakespeare.

It’s a pretty safe bet that any course
you take in the English department will
involve at least three ofShakespeare’s
plays and probably some of his hoino-
erotic sonnets as well. It doesn’t mat-
ter if you’re taking a course on e.e.
Cummings — your professor will still
make you wade through “Richard III”
or “Macbeth.”

You see, when your professors
went to college they, like us, were told
that Shakespeare was the greatest
writer in the English language and as-
signed his plays. And, just like us, your

professors got about seven pages into
“Hamlet,” said “what the hell is he
talking about?” and spent the rest of
the day watching TV, drinking beer
and eating Doritos.

Your professors have no idea what
any of the characters are saying ei-
ther. No one knows. Shakespeare’s
contemporaries didn’t even have a
clue. “What thee helle talkst he
aboute?” They’d say in the middle of
the first act, then spend the rest of
the day at the pub drinking mead and
eating pigeon—meat sandwiches.

No one is willing to admit this,
however, and face the threat of seem-
ing like they “just don’t get it.” And
so the charade of Shakespeare being
the greatest writer ever perpetuates
through the ages.

So what exactly did this dude
write? Let’s take a closer look at the
four basic kinds of Shakey’s plays:

The Comedies — Remember that
this defines “comedy” in the broad-
est sense. Comedy refers to a play in

donna.

Off the Wire

ﬁctitously compiled by Kevin McManemin

Downsized baseball teams faired poorly
As the 1998 baseball season comes to a close,
many team owners are looking back with regret on
a series of ,downsiz’mgs, layoffs and cost-cutting

measures undertaken to increase proﬁts.
The Detroit Tigers faired poorly this season after
I eliminating the position of shortstop, citing it as
“simply not cost effective.” The Seattle Mariners
faired even worse with a corporate restructuring
scheme that combined the positions of 1st, 2nd
and 3rd base into a single position called “base.”
The ’98 Mariners will enter the record books for
having been scored on 532,658,765 times this sea-
son, breaking the record previously set by Ma-

The Philadelphia Phillies actually improved this ‘
season aﬁer replacing batters with computers. The

which the protagonist is still alive by
the end, and has nothing to do with
whether or not it’s supposed to be
funny. Incidently, this is why the NBC
show “Third Rock from the Sun” is
refered to as a comedy.

The Tragedies — All ofhis trag-
edies consist of the same essential
three characters:

I) The hero who
starts out cool but ends
up so nervous and
jumpy you’d swear he
stayed up the night
before drinking a
case oflolt cola and
a pot of cappuchino.

2) The guy played
by Captain Picard from
“Star Trek: The NextGen—
eration.”

3) The older woman who thinks
she’s really on top of her craft since
she’s acting in a Shakespeare play and
therefore dreadfully overacts and is
kind offunny to watch in a tragic sort
of way, like watching a clown get hit
by a train.

The Histories — A general rule is

   
  
 

..«-r""‘

that any ofhis plays with a number in
the title is probably a history. “John
II,” “Henry III,” “Henry the IV part
two,” “Slaughterhouse Five,” these are
Shakespeare’s histories. They are re-
markably inaccurate when compared
to real history books on their subjects;
however, they are every bit as dull as
any history book on the mar-
ket today.
The Romances —- Ro-
mances usually contain fan-
tastic and supernatural el-
ements such as sorcerors,
elves, faires or talking
bears along with the ro-
mantic tales of true love.
Just remember that people
used to be a lot more gull-
ible and believed in practi-
cally anything in the l600’s.
Imagine—true love. Ha!

So just remember this about
Shakespeare: his comedies weren’t
funny, his tragedies are hilarious to
watch, his romances are fantasies and
his histories are filled with more his-
torical inaccuracies than Ronald
Reagan’s memory.

So what relevance do Shakespeare’s
plays have on our modern world? Well,
not bloody much. However, it would
be cool to talk like a Shakespeare char-
acter.

Take these simple examples of com-
mon phrases Shakespearized and soon
you too can be speaking like one of
the sprites from “A Midsummer’s
Night Dream.”

Dude, we were so wasted.

Hark! Yon devious ale keg forsook us!

My asshole English professor
woke me up in class.

Twas a scoundrel that didst awaken
me from Diana’s bawdy slumber!

I can't believe it 's not butter.
Nay, be it not so! But for mine own
lips to taste such sweet sucor, surely
was not the wealth of bishops in a
fishmongerer’s hat? Be this not the
butter of my father’s churn, but beist
it some wretched malefescence? O
margarine, thou cursed abomination.
O thou poison’d chosterol-free swill.
T’would I rather have but the cho-
lesterol coursing through mine
humours.

[exeunt]

(;REE;Eiiu'rty"ihd'exAc
‘ and‘iCREF Growth Account‘

..{S&P and Moodfs
rating for TIAA**

RIiSEARC

“---Ameﬁcas
TOD Pension Fund.”
.../Money Magazine, January 1993

- ybuwledm‘ 0”“

H COMMUNI

(answers on page 5)

ACROSS

I Mistake

5 Sharp tasting

10 Travel on water
I4 Musical passage
15 Office gadget

I6 Bone

17 Adam’s son

18 Speechify

19 Eye or piggy end
20 Radiant

22 Counsel

24 Brainless one

26 Shoe part

27 Emergency

30 Items for smokers
35 Game of chance
36 Comedian Johnson
37 Fast gait

38 “-Yankee Doodle. . .”

39 Behavior

42 “I Like —”

43 Tome and Gibson
45 Drizzle

46 Bird sound

48 Certain protests
50 Interrogates

51 Onassis

52 Wading bird

54 Brandy

57 Firemen’s needs
61 Surrounded by
62 Sensational

65 Great Lake

66 Montez or Falana
67 Act badly

68 Speed contest
69 Gangster’s girl

70 Haste

71 Hold back

DOWN

I Strikebreaker

2 Ear part

3 Notion

4 F ortuneteller.

5 Handsome fellow
6 Freight

7 Greek letter

8 Soak ﬂax

9 Rest period

10 Undermine

1 1 Jai -

12 Hotels

13 Great Salt —

21 Expression

23 Period

25 Make dull

27 Ascend

28 Tragic lover

29 Rome’s land

31 British gun

32 “Tempest” sprite
33 Rube

34 Walks

36 Body structure: abbr.
40 Items

4] Young fish

44 Disgrace

47 Deters

49 A feast — famine
50 Ranked

53 The upper crust
54 Quiet

55 Melville work
56 Fish organ

58 QED word

59 Paddy plant

60 Appear

63 Game official, for short

64 Caviar

©1994 Tribune Media Services

Phillies ended up batting .004 this year, nearly,‘ V.
double last year’s result. And down in Texasthe is
Rangers are regretting cutting back on supplies
like catcher’s masks and ‘mitts after suffering 198
catcher fatalities this season. ’
Ownersareiconsidering increasing their dwin-
' dling profit margins by moving the teams to Mexico
and the Dominican Republic, where not only will
an average pro ball player work for just $9.70 a year,
but will actually play better baseball as well.

Student Council President impeached in sex scandal

Peoria, IL -— David Capasano, president of

I the third grade student council at Franklin
Roosevelt Elementary School, was forced to step
down today barring impeachment proceedings.
‘ Capasano’s reign had been marred by allegations

that he’d kissed classmate Rebecca Johansen on g
the lips. “This is not acceptable behavior from our
leaders,” said third grader Mark Fredricks, “Doesn’t
he know that girls are yucky?” Many students are
concerned that their president is setting the ex-
ample that casual kissing is acceptable behavior in
the age of cooties. Others worry that Capasano
will no longer be able to govern effectively after
being made the butt of countless jokes and cho-
ruses of “David and Becky sitting in a tree, K-I-S-
S-I-N-G.” Student Council Vice President Jennifer
Beaman has vowed to “restore morality to third
grade political office,” adding that “boys are so
gross. Like, ewwwww.”

Strom Thurinond still alive

Washington — In a feat that doctors are call-
ing “a medical miracle,” Senator Strom Thunnond
did not die today. The 96-year-old statesman con-
tinued the metabolic processes required for life for
another 24 hours, failing to keel over in his seat on
the Senate ﬂoor or collapse face-first into his bowl
of oatmeal this morning at breakfast. Doctors at-
tribute Thurmond’s amazing longevity to “some
sort of pact with Satan.”

-—‘Mlliam Ravdin, TIAA-CREF Participant

HIGH MARKS FROM
MORNINGSTAR, s&1>, MOODY’S,
MONEY MAGAZINE AND BILL.

‘ S X e take a lot of pride in gaining high marks
from the major rating services. But the fact

is, we 're equally proud of the ratings we get every

operating expenses that are among the lowest in the
insurance and mutual fund industries.”

\Vith TIAA-CREF, you'll get the right choices —
day from our participants. Because at TIAA-CREF, and the dedication ——to help you achieve a lifetime
ensuring the ﬁnancial futures of the education and of financial goals. The leading experts agree.
So does Bill.

Find out how TIAA-CREF can help you build a

research community is something that goes beyond
stars and numbers.

We became the world's largest retirement orga- comfortable, financially secure tomorrow.
nization‘ by offering people a wide range ofsound Visit our VVeb site at www.tiaa-cref.org or call

us at 1800 842-2776.

investments, a commitment to superior service, and

_
Ll A A
. .
9' Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.”
' Source: Moi-ningsnr. Inc.. July 31,1998. Momingsi is an independent service (in! rates mutual funds and unable .ln|'|u|[lC3. The top I096 offunds in an investment carcgun rCLL'I‘v‘:‘ nu; «an and the next 12.5% recent

{our sins Momingsiu propnenrv nungs i-etlzcr hisronccil nsk-idiusrcd performance and are subject to change zvcry mnnrh. Thcv ire calciilsrcd from the :ccL>uiir‘«. rhrrr-. l‘l\r'L",1nLilCf‘l-\C.Il' .i\ L-rage .mnu.i| returns in
excess of 90-«lav TI'C2L\Llr\' bill returns with Jppmpmrc tee idiusrmcnh. and 1 risk factor lhll’ rctlecis performance bclow 90-«lav T-bill rciums. The overall star ratings interred in ihmc Jrc .\lurningir.ir‘~ published
rzungs, which are weighted svengcs or its rhrcc-,five-..1ml icn-year ratings for pcnods ending lulv 31. I998. The separate I unpublished) ratings for each ofrhe penal: are:

 

CIBF Stuck Amllll CIEP Glohd Equities Xzcollnl CXIF Equity Ink: Auonnt CIEF Gtvwth Amount CHEF Bond Market Account CIBF Social Choice 
5”‘ iUU"§/ Sm R.iting/ Sm RJung/ Sm RAll|'1g/ Sur luring, Sm R.iiin§/
Number of Domestic Equity Numb<r ntinicmmonal Equity Number 0fD0l1'I€$(lE Equity Number of D0m€.\lIC Equirv Number or I-"nail lnminc .\'unih<rui'Domcsiic hqum‘

Period Accounts Rated Azcounts lured Accounts lhinl Accounts Rarcil .-‘iccnuiirs lhiml Acrnunis lured
3-Year 4/2-12° 4/459 5/2.120 5/2.120 4/719 4/2.120
5-YW '*/ L363 5/335 N/A N, A -I/487 4,/1.303
l0'Y¢=r 4/674 N/A N/A . x/A N/.\ N/ A i

"Thesevtop ratings ueﬁaxd on TlAA‘s excepnonzl ﬁnancul strength, claims-paying ibilirv and overall operating perforrmnce. 'Bascd on QSKCIS under mzrugcment "'Sriinduvd -1" Poor’: Inrumnrr Rrll’Ul_ﬂ ANRIVIU.
1998; Lipper Analytic Services, Inc.. Lippzr-Dirmuﬁr Analytical Dam. I993 iQum<rl_v) CREF certiﬁcates and inrcmrs in the l'li-\.-\ Rn] Esme Account ire disxnhuicd bv TIA.-\-CREF ll1dl|’Idu.1‘ mil

Inmirurionzl Services. For more . ,l... inforinaiion, including charges ind expenses. call I 800 842-2733,:xr<n.sion 5509. for the CILEF iind Tl.-\A Real Estate Account Pr().1[Y€\‘I|A‘£>. Read thfﬂl carefully before
you invest or send money.

A

     
     
     
   
   
    
      
   
    
   
    
   
   
   
     
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
    
  
 
 
  
     
 
  
  
  
    
   
  
   
 
  
    
   
 
      
   
   
  
  
   
    
  
   
   
  
  
     
  
   
   
   

 
   
 

  

