0

  

  0112 iii

VOLUME 101, No. 11

Freshman dies
in car accident

Speeding truck driver causes
massive pileup on Interstate 81

By Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

Slippery early morning conditions
on Interstate 81 near Lexington and
an out-of-control tractor-trailer com-
bined to claim the life of a Washing-

ton and Lee University freshman on

Sunday, Jan. 3.

Jonathan Owen Nabors, 19, ofA1a-
baster, Ala., was returning from Christ-
mas break to begin his second semes-
ter at W&L when the car in which he
was traveling with his family was
crushed between two tractor-trailers
in a l6-vehicle pileup. Nabors and his
15-year-old sister Leah Marie were
killed instantly in the accident.

Nabors’ mother was transported to
Roanoke Memorial Hospital, where
she was initially listed in critical con-
dition and put on life support. As of
Friday evening, she remained in criti-
cal condition.

His father Eddie Nabors also sus-
tained injuries, but was released from
Roanoke Memorial on Friday, and is
expected to return to Alabama for a
memorial service for his children.

Dean of Freshmen Mark Dalhouse

has been the school’s contact with the
Nabors family.

“I was just so impressed by the fam-
ily,” Dalhouse said. “They’re just ex-
tremely close-knit, and are handling
this tragedy extremely well under the
circumstances.”

The Nabors have no other children.

“My heart goes out to them,”
Dalhouse said.

The accident began early on the
morning of Jan. 3, with the occurrence
of a relatively minor accident. The ve-
hicles involved had been moved to the
side of the road, and a State Police of-
ficer was helping travelers when a trac-
tor-trailer traveling too fast for condi-
tions hit the police car and jackknifed.

The driver of the tractor-trailer,
Douglas Hubert Austin, 49, of the
Memphis area, was killed in the wreck.
Within moments, however, at least I 1
other vehicles, ﬁve of them tractor-
trailers, had piled up in one of the
worst accidents local rescue squads
have dealt with in years. A total of 28
people were injured, and the interstate
was closed for approximately 12 hours
with trafﬁc backed up for miles.

See related story on page 4

Police arrest two

on drug charges -

Student calls police raid an act of
‘madness,’ questions methods

By Heather McDonald

STAFF WRITER

Senior Andrew Harrell and former
W&L senior Alexander Chris
Kurnellas were arrested on drug
charges after a 10-man tactical team
searched their three-story house in
early December.

An informant purchased a quar-
ter pound of marijuana from
Kumellas on Dec. 4, according to the
Rockbridge Regional Drug Task
Force.

The search warrant was served
the night of Dec. 5 by a tactical team
consisting of Virginia State Police,
Lexington City Police Tactical
Teams, a state police canine handler
and deputies from the Rockbridge
County Sheriffs Department.

After the search, Kurnellas was
charged with l) distribution of more
than .5 02. but less than 5 lbs. of
marijuana, 2) possession with the
intent to distribute more than .5 oz
but less than 5 lbs., and 3) distribu-
tion of more than .5 oz. but less than
5 lbs. of marijuana.

The first charge carries a maxi-
mum penalty of 10 years and a
$2,500 ﬁne; the second charge car-
ries a maximum penalty of 30 days
and a $500 fine; the third charge car-
ries the same penalty as the first
charge.

Kumellas withdrew from W&L at
the beginning of winter term. Harrell
was charged with misdemeanor pos-
session of marijuana.

Harrell described the night that
the search warrant was served as
“madness.”

“There were a lot of people, in
full riot gear, and they dragged [all
five residents] out ofbed . . . It was
just madness. I’ve watched COPS
on TV before, when they bust
people for illegal arms smuggling
and they didn’t use this many
people. [The cops] scared the shit
out of us,” Harrell said.

“They wouldn’t let us get
dressed [during the search] !” Harrell

I; said. “I was sitting injust my box-

ers in the coldest room ofthe house,
for like two hours, while they
searched the house. They tried to

question me, and they refused to let
me get dressed. I was like, ‘No, this
isn’t illegal or anything.”’

Bob Chapel, of the Rockbridge
Regional Drug Task Force, said the
bust wa: routine in nature. In the
past year, there have been more than
100 busts in the Rockbridge, Lexing-
ton and Buena Vista areas.

“We normally use seven or eight
men on a tactical team,” Chapel said,
“But this house had three levels, so
we used ten men.”

Chapel said he was unsure how
much the operation cost.

“[The DTF] doesn’t add up the
costs. However, the costs include
things like man hours, vehicles, gas,
wear and tear on the wires (for trans-
mitting information), and money
used to buy the drugs from the in-
formant,” Chapel said.

Harrell thinks what he viewed as
the seriousness of the bust may
have been due to what the informant
may have told the police.

“[The informant] might have told
them we had more stuff, but there
really wasn’t,” Harrell said. “[The
informant] lived at our house over
the summer. We gave him free room
and board, and he cut our grass. . .
He used to be the main supplier [of
marijuana] to W&L, but then when
someone started selling it for less,
he got mad.”

“Nothing has made sense in the
past few days,” Harrell said. “It’s
all fascinating to me that they did all
of this for a bunch of guys with a
little pot. They’re nuts. l’ve never
seen anyone get guns pointed at
them for having pot! Even the war-
rant just said marijuana. . . no co-
caine, no hard drugs.”

In addition to the marijuana, po-
lice found $500 worth of highway
road signs in the house. Charges
have not been brought against the
residents of the house forthese
signs. Harrell maintains the signs
are not theirs.

“Some fraternity had the house
for five years [before us]. We rented
the house from a landlord. The road
signs were stacked in corners when
we got there, and we just left them
there. . . They aren’t ours,” Harrell said.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

Hg-tum {ﬂirt

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

MONDAY, JANUARY 1 1, 1999

Sorority rushees listen carefully to the rules they must obey during their last day of rush. During the next two onth,
these girls will be at the heck and call of their future ‘sisters.’ More about women’s rush on pages 6 and 7.

Elrod recovers from surgery

By Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

Washington and Lee University
President John W. Elrod underwent
surgery last Thursday to remove a
cancerous kidney.

, The.operation has been termed
an initial success, according to
W&L’s director of communications
Brian Shaw, and Elrod is resting com-
fortably at the New York Hospital
where the procedure was performed.

“As far as we know he is doing
very well,” Shaw said. “The surgery
proceeded as expected and his doc-
tors reported that things ‘looked
good.’ The final report on the analy-
sis of the tissue around the kidney

that was removed will not be avail-
able until the end ofnext week.”

The surgery was performed by
W&L alumnus Dr. Darracott Vaughan
’6l, the head of the urology depart-
ment at Cornell University.

Elrod was initially diagnosed
with transitional cell carcinoma in his
right kidney at the Augusta Medi-
cal Center. Dr. Vaughan confirmed
the diagnosis when Elrod sought a
second opinion.

“John experienced some discomfort
and had it checked out,” Shaw said.
“The examination revealed the cancer.
His first diagnosis was in mid-Decem-
ber. The second opinion was deliv-
ered just before Christmas.”

Although risks exist every time a

Hotline misdialers
bother Lex resident

By Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

For Lexington resident Pam
Mayo, snow is a bittersweet event.
Her husband earns part of his living
plowing snow. Yet, along with the
season’s first flakes, Mayo can an-
ticipate a ﬂurry of unwanted early
morning phone calls.

Mayo’s phone number is 463-
GOOD, one digit away from Wash-
ington and Lee University’s inclem-
ent weather line, 462-GOOD.

“Basically, anytime the weather
gets bad, these calls start pour-
ing in from students wanting to
know what the road conditions
are,” Mayo said. “The majority of
them occur before 7 a.m., and I’ve
had people call at 2 in the morn-
ing before.”

According to Mayo, the problem
has been ongoing for more than a
year now, with no sign of slowing
down, as evidenced by last week’s
bad weather and subsequent calls.

“[Last week] when the weather was
so bad, I got ahnost 70 calls between 7
and 10 a.m.,” Mayo said. “And I have
caller I.D., and most said W&L.”

The common error is com-
pounded for Mayo by W&L stu-
dents’ rude behavior.

“Most of the time, I answer the

"phone, and peoplejust immediately

hang up,” Mayo said. “They don’t
even have the courtesy to say
‘sorry, wrong number.’ I’ve only
spoken to one girl who was nice
enough to tell me that she was try-
ing to reach the weather line.”
Changing her phone number,
however, is not an option for Mayo.
“I’ve had my phone number for a
good while now,” Mayo said. “I

don’t see why I should have to
change my number. The university
should do something about this
problem. Brian [Shaw, director of
communications] said that he’s go-
ing to try and get another number,
so he’s working on it.”

According to Shaw, the univer-
sity is looking to make a change with
the existing system, but is encoun-
tering problems.

“We are looking for a differ-
ent number at this point,” Shaw
said. “However, the problem is
that 463 numbers, in particular
those that are easy to remember, are
hard to come by.”

For the time being, when the
weather in Lexington takes a turn for
the worse, not worrying about the
phone ringing and getting a full
night’s sleep is an impossibility for
Mayo.

“We run our business out of our
home, and when my husband’s out
on the road I have to take these
calls,” Mayo said.

  Ellie ﬂing-tum ilﬁhi
January 11,1999
OPINION:

W&LIFE:

weather

SPORTS:

patients undergo general anesthesia,
the removal of a kidney is not consid-
ered to be high risk, and Dr. Vaughan
is optimistic regarding the operation.
He said that no follow-up treatment
will be necessary, if, as he suspects,
the tumor has been caught early.

Elrod is expected to return to Lex-
ington within ﬁve to seven days after
the operation, according to Shaw.

“After he gets back he will recu-
perate at Lee House and probably do
some work,” Shaw said. “We don’t
really expect him to be back at full ca-
pacity until the first of February at the
earliest.”

Throughout Elrod’s period of re-
cuperation, his office is being man-
aged by Farris Hotchkiss, vice presi-

dent of university relations, and
Laurent Boetsch, vice president for
academic affairs.

“We had to reschedule a few meet-
ings at which John’s presence was
essential,” Shaw said, “but basically
it has been, and will be, business as
usual until John is fully recovered and
back working.”

Shaw stressed that the operation is
relatively minor in nature, and that Elrod
is expected to make a full recovery.

“There are many people who have
this operation and go on to lead nor-
mal, active lives,” Shaw said. “There
has been absolutely no talk of him
stepping down.’ Aside from this prob-
lem, John is healthy, vigorous and
ready to lead the university. ‘

Rush Statistics:

Number of rushees: 236
Number of upperclass rushees: 5
Number of transfer rushees: 4

Pledge Statistics:

Number ofofﬁcial pledges: 200
Number of upperclass pledges: 4

House

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Phi Kappa Sigma
Sigma Chi

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Phi Kappa Psi
Kappa Sigma

Phi Gamma Delta
Sigma Nu

Pi Kappa Phi

Phi Delta Theta
Chi Psi

Pi Kappa Alpha
Beta Theta Pi
Lamda Chi Alpha

1999 Men’s Rush and
Pledge Statistics

Number of freshmen ineligible for rush due to grades: 26

—c0urteSy of the Interfraternity Council

Parking problems persist, Independent com-
plains about Greek pranks

Phish album disappoints, tips for surviving cold

PAGE 3

PAGES 4

Men’s basketball wins, wrestling wins

PAGES 5

 

Sorority rush results on
pages 6 and 7

 

 

A. ,   @112 ﬂing-tum lﬂht "
‘ ,’ v .'L-I,’ '  V
PAGE?  E   S JANUARY1l,l999 -

Phi congratulates students who achieved Dean’s List A

The following students have completed fall term with 12 or more credits with a term g.p.a. of at least 3.400 and cumulative g.p.a. of at least 2.000 and no individual grade
below C (2.0). * * Indicates that the student is also on the Washington and Lee Honor Roll for completing fall term with a term g.p.a of at least 3.750.

Mims Eshelman Adams ’99A
Brittany Anne Ahlstrom ’00A
Sarah Lynn Aiman ’99A **
Didem Akyel ’0lA

Charles Woodruff Allen ’99A
Ashley Alliene Anderson ’0lA
Sergei Alexandrovich Antonov ’99A **
Lee Anne Applegate ’0lA
Kendra Louise Archer ’99C "‘*
John Talbot Arnold ’99C
Elizabeth Anne Arthur ’99A **
David Neely Averyt ’O2A
Michele Lee Backus ’O2A **
William Jeffrey Bahl ’O2A
Kathleen Evingston Baird ‘02A **
Kathryn Rhett Baldwin ’0lA *"
Robert Renton Baldwin ’0OA **
Christopher McNeill Ball ’00A
Joseph Bassam Barakat ’0lA
Rachael Elizabeth Barlow ’99A **
Jeffrey William Barnes ’0lA **
Ann Cabell Baskervill ’O2A **
Evan Wareing Beale ’0lA
Jackson Talley Beardsley ’0lA
Taylor Beaupain ’00C

Joshua Thornton Beckham ’99A
Andrew Duane Beckler ’99A **
Emily Ann Belcher ’O0C
Shannon Elizabeth Bell ’00A
Kelly Elizabeth Benson ’99C
Edmund Travis Bentson ’OOC

Samuel Moore Chase ’99A
Vanessa Louise Chen ’0lA "”*
Brent Tyler Christ ’99C
William David Christ ’0lA **
John Paul Cimina ’O2A
Lance V. Clack ’00A
Elizabeth Taff Clark ’00A
Ladonna Blaine Clarke ’O2A
Edward Cantey Clarkson ’00A *"‘
Meagan Elizabeth Clement ‘02A **
Matthew James Clymer ’O0C **
Laura Michelle Cohen ’99A **
Sarah Lauren Cohen ’O2A
Michele Kim Connors ’00A
Jeffery Kenneth Cook ’0lA
Hillary Beth Coombs ’99A “”“
David Paul Cooper ’99A
Minton Truitt Cooper ’99A
Timothy Francis Cormier ’0lA
Deirdre Rose Coyle ’00A
Jordan Lorne Coyle ’0lA **
Andrew William Crawford ’0lA
John Aubrey Creek ’O2A
Robert Brian Crews ’0lA
Kathleen Grace Curameng ’00C
David Jason Damiani ’00A
Gary Cornelius Davis ’O2A
Jennifer Lynn Davis ’0lA
Joshua Isaac Davis ’99C
Lillian Hallett Davis ’99A **
Russell Alan Davis ’m A

Russell Kingsbury George ’0OA
Kathryn Joan Giard ’.OOA
Frances Norwood Gilbert ’99C
Nicole Suzanne Gilkeson ’O2A **
John Michael Gilman ’99C
Jordan Samuel Ginsberg ’0lA **
Carl Robert Ginther ’00C

Jude Collin Gleason ’OOA **
Matthew Lee Gooch ’0lA
Sara Kate Goodwin ’0OA
Alysia Margaret Graber ’99C
Tarah Shana Grant ’99A **
Amy Harnbly Gray ’99A
Charles Tyler Green ’0lA ** ,
Riley Erickson Greene ’OOA **
Frances Parnes Grobcrg ’0lA
Thomas Galen Grove ’O2A
Susan Ellen Groves ’0lA **
John David Grumbine ’99C
Lee Ann Gschwind ’99A "‘*
Gerald Lionel Guilbert ’O2A **
Aaron Louis Haberman ’99A
Eline Elly Haenebalcke ’O2A
Nathaniel James Hager ’99A
Donald Clayton Hall ’O0C
Hayley King Hall ’00A **
Leah Michelle Hall ’99A **
Sarah Louise Hall ’0OA

Sarah Ann Hardee ’0lA

Mary Elizabeth Harmon ’99A
Judson Ian Harper ’99C

William Alexander Kanner ’00A
Chase Alvin Karsman ’99A
Alyssa Rachel Kaufman ’99C
Julie Ann Kelley ’O2A
Christoph Arne Kemnade ’99C
Clayton Hughes Kennedy ’O2A
Mark Allen Kennedy ’0lA
Tyler James Kenning ’0lA
Martha Mason Kieckhefer ’99A
HyeWon Kim ’0lA **
Kevin Maxwell Kimmel ’99C "”“
Emory Frampton Kinder ’99A
Isis Calculus Kirby-O’Connell ’99A “*
Jeremy Brian Kirkland ’O2A
Ellen Sue Klenk ‘00A **
Matthew John Klimas ’O0A
Jeremy Todd Knezek ’00C
Jill Elizabeth Kosch ’O0A **
Matthew Lee Kozora ’O2A
Anne Monica Lachiewicz ’O2A
Jane Selden Lacy ‘OIA
Lauren Elizabeth LaFauci ’0lA
Katherine Caulkins Lamb ’0lA
Corinne O’Hayer Lane ’O2A
Samuel Paul Langholz ’O2A *"‘
Jennifer Rachel Law ’O2A **
Michael Joseph Leaser ‘99A
Charles Drake Leddy ’99C **
Alice Saunders Lee ’0lA
Joyce Kerri Lee ’00A
David Andrew Lehman ’00(‘

Michael James Miraglia ’0lA
Darlene Antonia Mitrano ’O2A
Meredith Anne Mlynar ’O0C **
Kathryn Ross Mobley ’O2A
Thomas Vincent Monaco ’0lA
Lee Price Moncrief ’0lA
Abigail Louise Montgomery ’O2A **
Catherine Marie Moore ’99C **
Erin Katherine Moroney ’99A
Kathleen Moroney ’0lA **
Jordan Cameron Morris ’00A **
David Whitfield Morriss ’99A "‘*
Ezra Starling Morse ’O2A
Robert O’Connor Moynihan ’O2A
Daniel MacKenzie Myer ’O2A
Christian Kleven Myers ’00A **
Elizabeth Anne Nacozy ’O2A **
Robert Partlow Naﬁel ’02A
Matthew Paul Neumayer ’00C "‘*
Kristoffer Johan Neville ’99A **
Elizabeth Ann Newton ’O2A
Erica Neyland ’0lA
Jason Allyn Nichols ’00A **
Roshni Mona Nirody ’00A **
Casey Conrad Nixon ’0lA
Kelly Elizabeth Norton ’99C
James Matthew OBrion ’0lA
Autumn Jean Oczkowski ’00A
Ji-Won Oh ’O2A
Elizabeth Leigh Olson ’0lA **
Michael Dennis O’Neill ’oor‘

Hampton Booth Richards ’99A
Carolyn Marie Richardson ’00C
Elizabeth Umstead Richey ’99A
Brian David Ricketts ’00A
Katherine Michelle Riddle ’00A
Sarah Lynn Riggs ’0lA "‘*

Leah Edwards Robinson ’99A **
Jesse Alan Rockoff ’O2A **

Fon Rogers ’O2A

Angela Christine Roman ’0lA *“
Leonard Calvin Rorrer ’99A
Christopher Charles Rosen ’99C
Jeffrey Scott Rotondi ’99A
August Frederick Ruckdeschel ’O0C
Susan Lee Ruge ’O2A **
Kimberly Ann Russell ’0lA **
Nicholas Robert Ryan-Lang ’0lA **
Linda Marie Salerno ’99A "‘*
David Allen Saunders ’99C

Paul Josef Saupe ’99C **

Leah Michelle Sawyer ’0lA
Nicholas Warren Sayers ’O2A
Nicholas David Sbema ’O2A
Leah Camille Schaefer ’00A
Sarah Elizabeth Schandler ’O2A
Peter Carey Schaumber ’99A
Daniel Martin Schreeder ’O2A
Emily Lynn Schulz ’00A
Carl Edward Schulze ’99A **
Megan Lindahl Schwarz ’0lA

i(.=u.. c........... o.... !(\I\r‘ ..

Marshall Hunter Sutton ’99A
Elizabeth Lucille Swann ’O2A
Stephanie Frederick Sweet ’O2A
Andrew Harlan Tapley ’99A

Susan Erica Terzian ’00C ** _
Amanda Lauren Thayer ’00C J‘
Matthew Mike Theodorakis ’99C

Corinne Carter Thomas ’O2A **
Elizabeth Colgate Thomas ’O2A "*
Ben Randolph Thompson ’00A
Matthew Adrian Thurlow ’00A
James Taylor Thurman ’O2A
Gerald Morton Titus ’00A
Jennifer Anne Titus ’00A

Micah Paul Tolman ’O2A **
Alison Marie Trinidad ’O2A **
Abram Jonas Trosky ’O2A
Campbell Lanier Tuskey ’99A ‘*
Rebecca Ashley Tyson ’O2A '
Sumnima Udas ’0lA

Julieann Veronica Ulin ’0lA **
Shannon Viar Upchurch ’99A **
George Michael Urban ’99C p
Nathan Kyle Urquhart ’0lA **
Jennifer Marie Vallidis ’99A **
Robert Chris Vanderbrouk ’O2A **
Geoffrey Brian Veale ’99C **
Khanh Don Nhat V0 ’00A

James Turner Vosseller ‘OOA **
Jodi Lynn Walberg ’O2A

. vnnn

‘C

Gerard Anand Best ’O2A

Joseph Michael Bestic ’99A **
Morrison Curtis Bethea ’O2A
Juliet Marie Bickford ’00A
Daniel Mofﬁtt Birdwhistell ’0lA
Erik Robert Bittner ’99C
Richard Cappe Black ’O2A **
Thomas Gately Blair ’99C

Tully Talbot Blalock ’00C
Robert Worrell Bland ’O2A "‘*
Suzanne Miriam Blum ’00A **
Julie Alissa Boncarosky ‘01C
Christopher George Bond ’99C
lsaris Bonilla ’99C

Kristen Renee Bonnema ’02A **
Kristine Ann Borden ’99A
Elizabeth Eleanor Borges ’0lA
Bret Douglas Bowerrnan ’99C **
Rachel Leanne Bowes ’0lA "‘*
Lee Alexander Bowles ’0lA **
Heather Marie Bradley ’99A **
Lauren Elizabeth Bradshaw ’0lA **
Christine Elizabeth Bragg ’99A
Robert Roy Brigance ’99A
Elizabeth Calder Britt ’99C
Ronald Norval Brown ’00C
James Andrew Browne ’00A **
Rebecca Ann Bruggeman ’99C *‘f‘
Virginia Ann Brumby ’0lA "‘*
Allison Michelle Bruneau ’0lA
Erin Ashley Buck ’00A **
Mary-Sommers Burger ’99A
Kristen Elizabeth Burr ’00A **
Amy Lynn Calce ’0lA
Mackenzie Smyth Caldwell ‘OOA **
Ruth Elizabeth Caldwell ’0lA
Joseph Boyd Camak ’00A

Scott Stewart Cameron ’0lA **
Amanda Lynn Cannon ’O2A **
Claire Anne Cannon ’99A
Carolyn Lee Carlson ’00A

Brian Christopher Carney ’00C
Joshua Eben Carpenter ’00A
Thomas Martin Carr ’99A
Kristin Ellen Carroll ’O2A
Wendy Nadia Case ’0lA

John Brandon Chalk ’00A **
Joshua Donald Chamberlain ’0lA **

Enid Elizabeth Dean ‘99A
Mary Nelson Dickinson ’99A
Benjamin Grant Dickson ’O2A **
Emily Barrington Dixon ’O2A **
Nancy Elizabeth Dixon ’00A
Peter Gardner Dodge ’99A
Allyson Ann Doiron ’0lA
Allison Agnes Doyle ’99C
Mary Hagood Drennen ’O2A
Henry Charles Driscoll ’00A **
Ruth Wakefield Duncan ’0lA
Keri Anne Dunphy ’99A "*
Ellen Rebecca Dupps ’0lA
Bess Jones DuRant ’O2A
Katherine Derbes Eagan ’0lA “*
Dana Marie Early ’0lA **
Brooke Erica Easton ’99C
Christopher Alan Edwards ’99A **
George Frederick Eichleay ’0lA
Ashley Elizabeth Eigher ’99C **
Ryan Mark Elliott ’99C **
Katherine Elsnab ’O2A
Courtney Leighan Emich ’O2A
Brian Jeffrey Euterrnoser ’00A **
Craig Sloan Evans ’99C
Noelle Elizabeth Evans ’O2A **
Elizabeth Brooke Evenson ’O2A
Hillary Camilla Everist ’00A
MacNeille Everist ’O2A
Alicia Marie Faderewski ’00C-
John Lee Farringer ’99A
Joel Patrick Fechisin ’0lA **
Sarah Elizabeth Feinberg ’99C **
Erin Kathleen Ferguson ’0lA **
Sean Brandon Fierke ’99A
Shelby Ryan Fierke ’O2A **
Megan Poynter Fink ’00A
Rebecca Helen Fitzsimmons ’99A
Silvana Elizabeth Flinn ’O2A
Emily Thomas Fonnan ’0lA *"‘
Lauren Ann Francis ’99A **
Amy Michelle Frazier ’99A
Tara Ann Friedel ’O2A
Jennifer Ann Frost ’99C
Matthew J. Gallo ’O2A
Noelle Marie Gamble ’00C
Thomas Henry Garrett ’00C
Gregg Joseph Genetti ’99C **

Malcolm Erskine Harris ’99A
Mary Rebecca Harris ’99A
Joshua Thomas Harvey ’O0A **
James Worrill Haslam ’99C
Christopher Edward Hatzis ’00A **
Joseph Pierce Hawkins ’00C
Geoffrey Bradford Haydon ’0OC **
Lezael Andrea Haynes ’00C **
Victoria Clark Hays ’0lA
Anne Cummins Hazlett ’0lA
Raquelle Alicia Headley ’0lA
Michael L. Healey ’00A
Warren Eliot Hedges ’00A
Frederick Mark Heiser ’0lA
Shari Noelle Henderson ’0lA
Daniel Ewell Hendricks ’99A **
‘Robert Lewis Hendricks ’O0C
Pamela Gray Herbert ’99A **
Margaret Kelley Herring ’99A
Wade Randall Hess ’O2A
Sara Naomi Heusel ’O2A **
Kenneth Brooks Hickman ‘02A **
Mary Kimbrell Hight ’00C
Kristen Noel Hitchens ‘00A **
Margaret Anne Hoehl ’99A **
Wesley Alden Hoke ’00A **
Graham Davis Holding ’O2A
Marium Grace Holland ’99A **
Scott McLean Hook ’00A
Nathan Rollins Hoot ’0lA ** 0
Stephen Day Hopkins ’00A
Rosalie M. Taylor Homer ’00A **
Stephen Christopher Hostetler ’O2A
Paul Daniel Hourigan ’99C **
Heather Michelle Howard ’O2A **
Nadiyah Mateen Howard ’99A
Matthew James Howenstein ’0lA
John David Huntington ’99C
Elizabeth Parry Huston ’99A
G-Yoon Im ’O2A
Sula Beatrice Jacobs ’00A
Christopher Patrick Johnson ’00A
Cynthia Ann Johnson ‘OOC **
Deena Nicole Johnson ’0lA
James Gowen Johnson ’99A
Tyler Scott Jorgensen ’0lA **
Teresa Kelley Joy ’99A **
Stephen James Kalista ’99A

Elizabeth Armistead Lemon ’99A **
Ryan Matthew Lepine ’O2A """
Thomas Weckesser Leshner ’99A
Aliya Imani Leslie ’O2A

Joe Spencer Liles ’0lA

Christina Elizabeth Lollar ’0lA **
Christopher Boyd Looney ’99A **
David Aaron Love ’00C

Davidson Glenn Lucas ’O2A

Amie Marie Lucier ’O2A **
Kathryn Marie Luskey ’99C **
Sarah Ashley Lyon ’O2A

Heather Elizabeth Mahaney ’O2A **
Margaretta Jamieson Maher ’00C
Rebecca Rose Makkai ’99A

J.T. Aquinas Malatesta ’0OC
Emily Lynn Malin ’00A ** .
Michael David Malinzak ’O2A **
Kirsten Rae Malm ’0lA **
Elizabeth Blair Manning ’O2A **
Margaret Ashley Marano ’00A **
Matthew Paul Marks ’O2A **
Elianna Joella Marziani ’O2A **
Jason Matthew May ’0lA

Denise Michelle Mayo ’O2A

Scott Hansen McClave ’00C *“
Sara Anne McCrone ’99A "*
Aaron Wayne McCullough ’99A
Mary Crawford McFall ’99A *“'
Margaret Houston McGregor ’99C ""‘
Lauren Lee McKeever ’00C

James M. McKnight ’00A
Stephanie Ann McKnight ’00A
Samantha Marie McLemore ’O2A
Stacy Lyn McLoughlin ’O2A
Wendy M. Meade ’0OA **

Warren Thomas Meehan ’00A **
Sarah Nicol Meldrum ’99A
Zebulon Stelley Mellett ’99A **
Douglas George Metcalf ’O2A
Cory Kristen Mettee ’99C **
Christine Anne Metzger ’0lA **
Tiffany Delana Miles ’99A **
Christian Kenneth Miller ’O2A
James Raymond Miller ’O2A **
Jason Ryan Miller ’O0C

Stephanie Miller ’0lA

Matthew Thomas Mills ’0OA

Susan Irene Osnato ’99C

William Overbaugh ’99A

Eric Jay Owsley ’0lA

Herbert Mills Palm ’0lA
Brittany Ann Palmer ’0lA
Melissa Wilce Palombo ’O2A
James Brewster Parker ’O0C
Shelley Rogers Parks ’02A
Matthew Seamus Partrick ’99A
Marlen Paschalidou ’0lA

Brooks Berg Paulsen ’00C
Rachel Alaina Perdue ’0lA **
Gwendolyn Derbes Perrilliat ’99C
Elizabeth O’Brien Perry ’99A
Stephen Matthew Pesce ’0lA
Sara Kristen Peterson ’0lA
Matthew Richard Petrusek ’O2A **
Martha Veil Pettyjohn ’00A
Justin Ronald Pfeifer ’99A
Stephen Lewis Philipson ’0lA
Ginger Renee Phillips ’0lA
Jennifer Pinyan ’00A **

Emily Weldon Pipkin ’99A "‘*
Gregory Legare Pleasants ’00A **
Darren William Pohlmann ’99A
John Michael Power ’02A

Anne Drew Powers ’O2A
Carolyn Troutman Pressly ’O2A **
Catherine Connolei Price ’99A
Brian James Prisco ’00A'*‘* ‘ 4'
Erica Lynn Prosser ’99A
Catherine Barry Quinn ’99A **
Hugh Kirkpatrick Rabb ’0lA ’”‘
Matthew Ryan Raley ’0lA
Alison Forrester Ralston ’00C
Lucy Wright Rankin ’O2A

Keith Daniel Rauch ’00A

Maria Socorro Rayas ’O2A
Reagan Allison Reaud ’0lA
Sarah Elizabeth Rector ’99A
Heather Melcher Reid ’0OC **
Nancy LeAnne Reinhart ’00C "‘*
Robert Carl Reitinger ’O2A
Patrick Joseph Renton ’0lA **
Cecily Audrey Reynolds ’99A **
Charles Lee Reynolds ’99A **
Jann English Rhea ’99A **
Daniel Lewis Riberkof ’O2A **

William Michael Seganish ’00A
Jennifer Marie Selder ’99A **
Alyssa Christine Sellers ’99A
Jonathan Wilkins Sewall ’O2A **
Harold Ellis Shaw ’O2A **
Timothy Norman Showalter ’00A **
Ashley Elizabeth Shreves ’00A
Alison Callaway Simmons ’0lA
Andrew Cary Simmons ’0lA
Caroline Tison Simons ’99A
Crystal Ann Simpson ’0lC
Tejpal Bal Singh ’99A

Kristi Lynne Slatka ’00A **
Althea Kendall Smiley ’0lA
Ashley Claire Smith ’99A **
Hudson Day Smith ’99C **
Matthew Spencer Smith ’O2A
Paul Maxwell Smith ’0lA

Ralph Harrison Smith ’0lA
Robert Hunter Smith ’00A

Susan Neislcr Smith ’00A **
Zachary Eben Smith ’0lA
Charles McLean Snyder ’99C **
Joshua Jason Solot ’00A
Meredith Jane Sorensen ’O2A **
Kathie Soroka ’0lA **

Lindsay Sommerville South ’0OA
Ali Burcak Soydan ’O2A **
Katherine Lindley Spaht ’99A
Julianna Marie Spencer ’0lA’ ' 
Gina Lynn Spezialetti ’0lA **

I Amanda Jo Stallard ’99C

Nicholas Andrew Stawasz ’0lA
Michael Jeffrey Stefan ’O2A **

, Kelly Elizabeth Stewart ’00A **

Brian Carr Stisser ’0lA "‘*

Tracy Ann Stitt ’O2A **
Justin Douglas Stockdale ’00A
Thomas Alexander Stoklasek ’02A **
Everett George Stook ’99A

Thomas Christopher Stover ’99A **
Claudia Blair Stowe ’00A **

Amy Kathleen Stowell ’99C

Steven Charles Straub ’0OA **
Jennifer Ruth Strawbridge ’0lA **
Jonathan Paul Stroebel ’O2A
Margaret Lee Stuntz ’99A **
David Edward Sugennan ’99A

JAMES F. LEYBLIRN t.}aRARY_, .
r,r,,r..s-r-:w-:.i~orz a LE~.E umvehstrr

 
 

LE)(lNGTON.\/A 24450

JAN 12 1999

(not in credit cards)

Introducing the American
Express Credit Card for Students.
Live for today.

Build for tomorrow.

The American Express Credit Card

for Students is a resource you can
depend on. With benefits like big air-
fare savings, free credit information,
and no annual fee, it'll help you get the
most from your student years — and
help you build a solid financial
foundation for the future.

AMERKAN
EXPRESS

Cards

"|—....-... I....,.,.,.. ..II_
John Robert Walker ’0lA
John Israel Wall ’99C
Denise Kathleen Wallin ’00A
Dylan Patrick Walsh ’00A i
James Augustine Waskovich ’00C
Lauren Kathryn Weedon ’99A
Jeffrey Scott Wehner ’00A
Meredith Lynn Welch ’00A
Natalie Ann Welle ’99C
Katherine Elizabeth West ‘E **
Michael Bryan Wheeler ’99A
Katherine Alexis Wheelock ’99A
Mary Elizabeth Whipple ’00A
Valerie Janiece Widener ’99C
John Bradford Wiginton ’O2A
John Martin Henry Wilbers ’99A
Lindsay Alison Williams ’0lA
Benjamin Gray Wilson ’0lA
Charles Maxwell Wilson ’99A
Harry Maurice Wilson ’99A
Robert Michael Wilson ’99C ' 1
Mary Elizabeth Winfrey ’00C "‘*
Stephanie Ripley Wolfe ’99A **
Christine Karning Wong ’O0A
Mary Elizabeth Woodard ’0lA **
Erika Ann Woodson ’99A
Scott Andrews Woodward ’O2A )-
John Cliﬁon Woolley ’99A
0 Jonathan Michael Wright ’99C" i
’ ‘Patrick Beaumont Wright ’0lA *3‘
Adam David Yablonski ’0lA
Amanda Roxanne Yates ’99C
Margaret Shepherd Yates ’00A V
Courtney Catherine Yevich ‘OOA
Joshua Neely Young ’99A
Dorothy Yuan ’0lA **
John Philip Zimmer ’0OA **

I

Parents and alumni
can subscribe to The
Ring-tum Phi by
sending a $30 check

to The Ring-tum Phi,
University Center,
Lexington, VA 24450.

 

 

Craun presents class ’62 lecture
Ed Craun, professor of English at Washington and Lee

I lninm.-.-in. "rill vs»-tnruzvlf +l-do In:-or n

University, will present this year’s Clalss of 1962 Fellow-
ship Lecture on Tuesday, Jan. 12 at 7:30 p.m. in Northen
Auditorium. The title of Craun’s lecture is “Women’s
Voices, Men’s Learning, and Moral Agency: Two Notori-

ous Medieval Cases.”

rium.

Washington and Lee's

Friday, Jan. 22.

third prize is one FD ticket.

MSA sponsors MLK program
W&L’s Minority Students Association is co—sponsor-l
ing a program on Martin Luther King, Jr. along withi
Lexington's First Baptist Church and Promji, the black stu-ll
dent assocation at Virginia Military Institute. l
The program will be held on Saturday, Jan. 16 at Firstl
Baptist Church, 103 N. Main Street in Lexington at 6 p.m. 

one Ar 1 one r:..II.\...)l

it

His lecture will explore how two late medieval bour-
geois women, Geoffrey Chaucer’s Wife of Bath and
Margery Kempe, dealt with the male clergy’s attempts to
direct women’s lives, especially their sexuality, their speech ’
and their desire to instruct others. ‘

Expert discusses effects of alcohol

Dr. H. Scott Swartzwelder, a clinical professor of psy-?
chiatry at Duke University Medical Center and a senior 1‘
research career scientist with the U.S. Dept. of Veterans
Affairs, will speak on Jan. 18 at 8 p.m. in Northen Audito-

in

la

SARAH holds lip sync contest

SARAH (Students Against

Rockbridge Area Hunger) will hold the 13th annual Lip‘
Sync contest to raise money for local food pantries on”

The contest will be held at the Student Activities Pa-1,
vilion. The admission charge is $5 at the door or $4 ifthei
ticket is purchased in advance from the W&L Co-op. 

Sign-up for the acts will be conducted at the W&L Co-,9
op on Wednesday and Thursday, Jan. 20 and 21 . The entry
fee is $30 per act. First prize is $100 and a pair of tickets to,
Fancy Dress; second prize is $50 and one FD ticket, and

l

;l
!

Pl

 

 

Eh: itling-tum lﬂhi

   OPINION

PAGE 3

  
 

   
 
  

Does everyone want to be a hero? I

if anyone else shares our adventuresome

of a water—landing on a flight from

      

 
   
  
  
 
   
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
  

 

   
  
 

4: ‘ V ‘ = T NV»-_L oVVs’a_nd Iiandrailings of ‘Woods Creek
LETTERS  Iwge-ét.iId°nit1sno2v who did it but W
» I .V V  .thVis;1s»rush week, it's probably some kind
TO  _  ?‘of fraternity prVank.Inasnowbank outside
‘ . I e V » .. _ Woods Creek, ice grafitti reads "Pika Sux"
*I I  Y I end‘ _'I'Go" Beta Theta l’i."'Ilt's really unfair
   that independent-studentsIhave to deal
. ‘ . v  a ‘ 5 . ’ with fallout from rush week; V
, I . '  i V « V ‘Rush should be conﬁned to the frater-
.; I I ‘ I "I‘_ ‘‘ ‘~_Vnities'.,Let'thern screamlandyell and smear
Stud_entS   Vaseline‘ all over the doorsover there. But
parking S1tl1atlOI'l‘I I ‘ I A lfkieep it away from independents. Indepen-
. .  I "V , I dents choose to live on campus in order to‘
h To the editors of The Ring-tum Phi, I ‘ -avoid these kinds of things. We enjoy the
E I would like to address an issue that I am mpeeeea quiet: and Serenity Of “Vlng 011 the
sure most students here care very deeply ~ Other Side Of The Hill frem the fralemlty
about. Asa freshman 1ast.yVear,jIfdid;n_ot re-I .110.11S¢S- I I . I . ’
any concern mysé1f§vith_”th¢_1a¢kVnfgnfﬁcienf Vflndcpendents are treated unfairly in a
, parking facilities at this Tschoeol Ifriiisése “ lot of Ways already. When grades are cal-
however’ 1 haygitfhund  fﬁéulty lated and averaged, fraternities are cat-
ing a. legal p§;fking‘«Ip]age_: "  gp:rizVed.’onian individual basis, but inde.
usuallykeep ﬁe en_tsVare allilumped together. Every
. On several occasions;though, an in  anpus statistics announce that fra-
ai quick run-to Ham, Tee;-V  aV V V ies have higher GPAs than indepen-
to anywherejnear the,I4Ii)”use"iand arnlsforceti IS, when in reality, the students with‘
_to park as many blolcksliawayifro ' I ’ nd,bc,:low‘ Whoare counted as inde-I
the store_ I‘ '   *~ ‘ V because they can't get into a fra-
Washington and.,Lee“wants yfﬁeshmaii year, lower our average
I problem witli’2iariIiiiiriiensc§p ..W‘h3‘°f’"l3nY frats-7° ‘ ._  I
Well, whereis :he‘~}aiieg‘éa. garage? ‘ , . ., ts.al;s<‘558et less attention ,
. Iikea trick to sucker‘ tudeii’ trident prefssystudent activity
5 about-this problein.Il1’a V  l    1 ;  _ .-
say; we wi]j’Nojrb¢ g‘j1VeV‘ "¢d V  disgraceful that we should
. _   , I A I ’ tcleijate “dumb fraternity pranks
I Rush we‘el<—,ontop of all this, V
A I V L  a    Robert Marmorstein
mdéteedentélainstatsm I 
activities sho ‘l I
' 1 h o b 1 I the Greek system
Do you contemp ate orri e   
. Earlyon the morningV.ofVJanu
‘tmgedie s wh e reve 1' Yo u g o ‘>   

twins in the back? I’ll just have to rescue

know I sure do. A friend and I were talk- state ofmind. I’d like to admit my strange Roanoke to Atlanta is slim, but that all three ofthem. Sometimes I even ﬁnd  

ing over winter break about the strange ideas, purge myselfofmy wild desires. doesn’t stop me from deciding how to myself a sidekick. First, we have some ‘id, 

thoughts and fantasies of heroism that When on aplane, I would assume that get every last passenger out ofthe smol- disagreement, hostility if you will, and {“-,_V,.-*““'11Ot€   
cross our minds in everyday situations. many people read, sleep, listen to the dering wreck before it plummets to the then We resolve Our differences and Work <1“-»«.» I

Each ofus was slow to admit these pecu-
. liar passions and
desires, but after
testing the water V
with one another,  i I
,,_we discovered
“that we share
isome bizarre
gidreams.
 I thought that I alone entertain these
§',ludicrous, often gory, fantasies of glory,
iifbut I was mistaken. At least one other
rgdemented soul holds such feelings. He is
 great friend. And ifhe alone shares my
Vllplight, I am in good company. For he is a
 truly incredible person. But I’d like to ask

  
   

...a'ta'e...

 

If ~- _VOff His Rocker
y’ Stephen Pesoe ’01

flight attendant’s instructioifs (well,
maybe not) or listen to mu-
sic. I, on the other hand,
think about possible hos-
tage situations and horrible
crashes. I pick out the oth-
ers in the plane whom I
think would go over the
edge. I also think about how the wacko
is going to do it: gun, bomb, nerve gas,
locusts, whatever. Then I establish a plan
of action. How am I going to take the
knave down? He will not succeed, and I
am the stud-man who’s going to make
sure of that.

I think about crashes. The likelihood

depths of the ocean. Who is going to
need the most help? The elderly gentle-
man in the front or the two-year—old

{I

I crave smoked
ham and imag-
ine my family
gagged and tied
up in the living

 ”

   

5  (governance,

" I To A‘V1i:;w&L tudenits,
. ‘ ,fA3lh.ell11t,1‘5il1V€ ‘ “
‘ dent body constitu,

V lﬁnd myself indebt  V 
h. . you‘ who have called or written’jtV;‘o,.ex-‘
press your interest,vVshai;e,,yVo  
and offeryour support; Much hasbeen

"‘ eff. ‘was published, and I haveevery liope“

als have yetto be  it seems most
M appropriate.forrneto,beginIieirculating
. someiofﬂie‘ more sigiiificant, ideas as

soon as possible. In this way lliope to-

cess of constitutional reform. Fi1nher-

‘and any subsequent proposals care-
fully. Should you have any commen-

rectly or through the office .of 7hVejRirVzg-
1. tumVPhi. ’ I " f . . V

‘I V Sincerely, »_   ,V 3 

‘A ,’,_VV’Pau‘ickMcCormaél_t I I I It

 

‘Proposal One:Divi§ion ofPowers S , I

- : government is notanew one, but has

 
    
   
   
 
  
  
  

V_ done in the severalV‘iwVeVjeVl<s, _sViiV_ice‘:n_1y=, V
V [original  of Vst_udent—?gover,nance ”;

_ I.Vthat"tli'isi important work will soon be  I
‘I completediiuhlthoughg the ﬁnal propos- ‘

heighten the general iriterest’in the pro-. .V

ix more, I hope that I may provide a fully; ,
reasoned explanation for these initia-V‘ 
tives before those with institutional pre- I
rogatives to protect distort my iposi-24

I tiofisg So, Lask you to please read this 

tary, Ilencourage you to contact me di- ,

Theconcept of divided powers‘ in .

l}V always proven a great success whenever

. ‘7task1into itsicomponerit parts, you may then
I V design the most T appropriate strategy for
 dealing with each of the specifics.‘ The clas-
=  sicexample ofthislis the American national
1‘, government, with itsjidivision of executive,

egislative and judicial powers.
Now itshould be completely obvious

‘ (that governing our university is not nearly_

ticornplicated  the example above. We
collectively agree that the proliferation of
committee"sVon_.eampus, espedially where

Vfthej studenlfijudiciary is conceV_rned, has
 gone to"o;,far;jWithﬁthis in mind, the ques-

ion became_ one of realigning our current
, .structuife. to our maximum Vadvantage with-
foiit rnakingllife rn_oreIcoinplicated or con-
 Theanswer I propose is not a new
-. on‘e,f_asa~I remember some minor discussion
of the t'oVpicIoccurred~two years ago when I

 servingionthe White Book Review
fCo_mmittee.\ . V

The two groups that should be involved

‘I in the realignment are the EC and the class

ofﬁcers — basically, a shift toward the lat-
ter. I realize that this can be a sensitive sub-
ject to many. They incorrectly assume that
‘criticism of the Executive Committee trans-

 ilates into criticism of the Honor System.

When I conducted my poll some weeks ago
; the vast majority of the respondents linked
the two by saying that the primary role of
the EC should be to safeguard the Honor
System. , '
If you examine the EC’s rules of proce-
dure (such as the practice of closed delib-
erations), you will see that it is best suited

. for its basically judicial role. When we ex-

I amine the other main duties of the EC (mak-

‘ , VingVcomm_ittee appointments and distribut-
, ting the revenue of student activity fees),
{one has to wonder if its procedures are as

effective. This is why I asked students

V government. In this way we will avoid

come with many added attractions: it

' than the EC (1 envision regular students

‘ students in our government (thereby

whether or not they would support

sive.

Again, the vast majority agreed that
this would be a good thing. I believe
this can be best achieved by empow-
ering the Class Ofﬁcers and Big Three
Officers to handle the routine tasks of

hampering the ultra-important role of
the EC in adjudicating honor infrac-
tions.

i This new grouping, which I would
style the Student Congress, would

could operate on a more open basis

being able to see just how delibera-
tions are done), it would involve more

making it more responsive to general
concerns), provide a broader platform
for students to affect policy changes
on campus, give the class ofﬁcers a
substantial chance to provide service
to their respective classes.

In short, though, it would allow the
EC to concentrate on its role as arbi-
ters of Honor and allow others to handle
the more political processes. The
whole idea has a lot to be said for it,
but I am afraid that I do not have the
chance to fully explore the benefits
here. If you have questions or con-
cerns, then I look forward to hearing
from any and all of you. If you under-
stand the benefits of the proposal, then
I ask you to try to discuss it at some
point in the near future with others on
campus. Even if this proposal is ulti-
mately rejected, perhaps our discus-
sions will allow another alternative to
arise to address some of the weak-
nesses on campus.

together for the common good.

I never get bored on a three-hour
flight. There is so much that could go
wrong. And in my sick, twisted little
head, I am the Renaissance man to over-
come any of it. Liver transplant, open-
heart surgery, Chinese tickle torture? I’m
your man.

Sometimes when I am home with my
family, I come back to the house very late
— 3 or 4 in the morning. I would assume
many people wouldjust like to go to bed
at that point. I crave smoked ham and
imagine my family gagged and tied up in
the living room while some psycho ﬁn-
ishes the last ofthe ham from the refrig-
erator. I don’t appreciate people abduct-
ing my parents, and nobody eats my ham.
How should I deal with this situation?
What’s the best way to enter my house

one coming in through the bathroom win-
dow. Now he’s learned to expect it. He
says he wishes he’d have skipped the
lecture on “better to be safe than sorry.”)
Well, then I have to decide how to deal
with whatever weapon the criminal might
have and choose my own weapon. Usu-
ally I decide to venture out with my bare
hands. Of course, I am a little guy who
has never even been in a ﬁght, much less
trained to ﬁght. But, hey, that doesn’t
matter.

I hope this isn’t sacrilegious, but
sometimes I drift off during church ser-
vices. I’m sure we’ve all experienced a
boring sermon or two in our day, and
we’ve all probably daydreamed about
something at that point. Again, I turn to
thoughts of hostage situations. How will
I use my masterful skills to save the con-
gregation from ultimate peril? Artfully
swinging from the support beams or yank-
ing a rug injust the right way could save
us from some religiously frustrated
wacko. Then my Catholic background
takes hold of my mind and I wonder if
the pope has any type of Secret Service.
Are there any men in black cassocks and
dark sunglasses looking for suspicious
characters? There must be. I could do that.

These thoughts pop into my head all
the time. I can’t control them. I hope they
are not too abnormal. Perhaps those Hol-
lywood adventure ﬁlms have distorted
my sense of reality. When I forced my
dad to watch the Superfriends everyday
during break, I knew I had a problem. Dad
saw titles like “The Attack of the Giant
Squid” and said, “What the hell are we
watching?” I thought, “Cool, an
Aquaman episode! His mental telepathy
with the sea life is vastly underutilized
by the Friends.”

{(

I want to get on him . . .
Oh, but he’s too short.
But I guess it doesn’t mat-
ter if you’re lying down.

—— Anonymous Junior

Ellie Ring-tum ilﬁh

Executive Editors Tarah Grant

t has been employed. Consider it a spe-. _making the appropriation and appoint- without making any noise? (One night Hollis," Hove,
VV iaiization of labor-'_—.} if you break a large ment processes more open and inclu- my dad got nervous when he heard some- News Editors Polly Doig
' i ‘ John Stewart

W&Life Editors Ginger Phillips
Erica Prosscr
Stephanie Bianco
Stephen Pescc
Frances Groberg
Kevin McMancmin
Sarah Meldrum
Meredith Mlynar
Emily Barnes
Scott Cameron
Cliff Woolley

Opinions Editors
Sports Editor
Last Word Editor
Copy Editors
Photo Editors

Production Assistant

Jason Williams
Matt Lorber
Lionel Brown

Business Manager
Advertising Direclors
Circulation Director

i

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee

University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Rin
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscr
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications
elects the Executive Editors, but The Ring-tum

otherwise independent.

g-mm
iption
Board
Phi is

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon

on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The
turn Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for c

Ring-
ontent

and length. Letters, columns and “Talkback” do not
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.

Advertising does not reflect the opinions of The

Ring-

tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current

court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wIu.edu
hltp://wlu.edu/~pI1i

Annual subsription rate: $30

 

J}

 

@112 ﬁling-Gum lﬂlli ‘
 W8: IFE 
TO A CLAS SMATE DYING YOUNG 
Freshman Jonathan Nabors ’ life had an impact that won ’t be forgotten by the W&L community i

By Elianna Marziani and Erica Prosser
STAFF WRITER AND F EA TURES EDITOR

On Sunday, January 3, Washington and Lee University
lost a good student and a great friend.

Freshman Jonathan Nabors, a graduate of Montgom-
ery Academy in Alabama, was killed in a 16-vehicle acci-

dent on Interstate 81, just south of Lexington. The acci-
dent also took the lives of three other people.

Nabors’ sister died in the crash, and his mother remains
in critical condition at Carilion Roanoke Memorial Hospi-
tal. His father, Eddie, was one of dozens of people injured
in the pile-up that involved at least eight tractor trailers.
Eddie suffered cracked ribs and a torn shoulder. He also
received 10 stitches on his face.

State Police lst Sgt. Joe Peters told The Roanoke Times
that the accident was the worst he has seen in his 28-year
career, and it was certainly one of the worst that has ever
occurred in Western Virginia.

When tragedies like this one occur, it can be easy to get
lost in the statistics and lose sight of the fact that the
victims are real people. Members of the W&L community
are less likely to become desensitized, though, because in

losing Jon, they have lost a well-liked and well-respected
classmate.

The W&L counseling services are available to help stu-
dents deal with his death, but in exploring his impact on
campus, we chose to celebrate his life. Maybe students
who didn’t know Jon personally can get a small idea of
who he was and how valuable his time here was to those
who knew him.

Jon Nabors was 19 years old and an avid Alabama foot-
ball fan; he even went to the New Year’s Day game against
Georgia Tech. He was planning to rush Kappa Sigma this
winter, which is why some of the Kappa Sigs are ﬂying
their ﬂag at half—mast for him.

He loved Dave Matthews Band, Phish and Widespread
Panic. On campus, he was a politics major and a Summer
Scholar. Jon did not lack faith, either; he was a practicing
Baptist who planned to go to the University of Virginia law
school, then work at an Atlanta law firm for awhile before
returning to Alabama. In the fall, he took religion, politics,

Phish album not up to group’s

By Matt LaMotte

MUSIC REVIE WER

Phish has a whole lot going for it
right now.

Its last two summer festivals,
Lemonwheel and the Great Went, stand

as two of the most grandiose testa- Ghost,

forced to wonder how these walking
surveys of American musical accom-
plishment have avoided the commer-
cial pop market for so long.

The answer to this conundrum em-
phatically reveals itselfon Phish’s lat-
est studio effort, The Story of the

art and math, and he took golf in PE. He even found time
for volunteer work; he was a member of the Big Buddies
program and had already taken his Little Buddy out to eat
and to go
bowling.

Beyond his .
interests,
though, I on
was generally
regarded as
smart, kind,
compassionate
and motivated.
S u i t e m a t e
Mike Reynold
said that he,
Jon and other
s u it e m at e s
Micah Tolman
and Claiborne
Taylor would
hang out to-
gether, playing
tw o - o n - t w o
basketball, go-
ing to parties
and staying up
until 3 a.m. talk-
ing.

“We all en-
joyed our-
s e l v e s , ”
Reynold said.

In his recol-
lections, he re-
membered an
example of
Jon’s determi-
nation: Jon had
decided that he wanted to go to Mardi Gras over Febru-
ary break this year.

Jon’s parents were not at all happy with the idea, and

jure up Jimi Hendrix, tastefully ac-
companied by light, jazzy instru-
mentation that is some of Phish’s
best to date.

'  :.=:.' i i« 2'»-4: zi---i-.:."..-r

Photo courtesy of Brian Shaw

Freshman Jonathan Nabors, a native of
Alabama, was killed January 3 on Interstate
81 in a 16-vehicle pile-up. His absence is
deeply felt at Washington and Lee.

they had not given their consent. But Jon was still making
arrangements, calling hotels and getting all the details
worked out for the trip. When Jon’s father met with Jon’s
suitemates Thursday night, he said that
even though he had said that Jon
would not be going to Mardi Gras, he
and his wife knew that Jon would go
anyway. He had set his mind to it, and
everyone who knew Jon knew that,
when he was determined to do some-
thing, he did it.

Taylor agreed with that observa-
tion.

“Jonathan was one of the strongest-
willed people I have ever met,” he said.
“He had well-thought out and many
times elaborate explanations for his
thoughts on just about any subject.

“I always admired this about him, and
believe it to be the quality of a very de-
termined person. He knew exactly what
he wanted and thought about life and
he never was afraid to share it, even if it
came in direct opposition to your own
beliefs. And while this quality often
translates into people who are very hard
to get along with, this was not the case
with Jonathan, and that is one of the
things that is so special about him.

“While he may have disagreed with
or ﬂat-out hated the view you could take,
he always honored it and was interested
to hear your thoughts on it. And even
if you argued with him over some cer-
tain topic, when all was said and done,
he would think ofyou no less and treat
you no differently,” Taylor said.

Professor Alexandra Brown of the re-
ligion department had Jon in her New
Testament class fall term, and she also
caught a glimpse of his tolerant and thoughtful determina-
tion. She said that, while he was quiet in class, he could be

passionate about some topics and shared that passion
with his classmates.
“He did a report around the last day of the term about

poverty and wealth in the New Testament,” Brown said. I‘

“He obviously had some passion about it. The subject
was that we are privileged here . . . he seemed to be dealing
with the responsibilities ofhis privilege.” Brown said that
she was impressed by his responsibility and by the fact
that he did an oral presentation instead of a paper; few
students chose to stand in front of the class and present
their thoughts.

“[That presentation] is an enduring image for me of

Jon,” she said. “It meant an awful lot to me, looking back I,

on his life.”

Through his determination and passion, though, Jon
was also a laid—back and happy person. Reynold said that
he could only recall one time when Ion lost his temper.

“It was during a Nintendo game,” he said. Otherwise, l‘
Jon was relaxed and full of smiles.

Professors George Bent and Mark Rush also taught
Jon during the fall, and both agreed that he was a quiet but
friendly student. ll

“He seemed to be very pleasant, a very nice guy,” Bent said.

Taylor had many similar impressions of his friend to share.

“He had qualities that made it hard for people not to
get along with him,” Taylor said. “His upbeat attitude made
it hard not to be excitedjust when you were around him. 1

“In him was a quality of genuineness, which could even
be seen in his smile, and sincerity that made him the great
friend to many that he was,” Taylor said. “He always could
remember people’s names and things they had told him
better than I could ever imagine, and I know it is because
he whole—heartedly cared about what each and every one
of these people had to say.”

Overall, Jon is remembered as friendly, kind, strong, de-
termined and irreplaceable. y

“I could be having a terrible day and just the sight
of him and his big smile made it hard not to just smile
back and forget about crap that was bothering me,”
Taylor said. ,

Jon Nabors, you will be missed, and we will never
forget you.

I

potential  

tracks such as.“The Moma Dance,”
“Fikus” and the first single, “Birds-4 ,-
ofa Feather,” Phish goes to incred-
ible lengths to demonstrate its
skills, sadly at the expense of the
listener.

Melody and texture are abandoned
for tricky time changes and advanced

.. Oh,
cold outside v

Tips for surviving winter in Lex

baby, it’s ’

 

 

 

m§mSt0 mUSiCaiW0TShip in American Phish has become a victim of its compositional techniques that the aver- By Erica Prosser whktiepinglwarm at homffi 1'
history. own attributes: glimpses of genius age Phish fan can neitherunderstand nor FEATURESEDWOR 6 ,er you We 9“ “am?” 9“), ’
Phish has wealth beyond belief, a abound, but musical ideas are con- appreciate. . . . you might be feeling a bit Chilly m
never-endingtourthat seldom fails to tinually scrapped for an opportunity Good intentions are evident, but if Limk Outside’ kldsi winter has your mom" Stay warm’ butiie care-
Seii Out aim0St CV60’ Venue Visited, to display the unparalleled ability Phish intended to cut a legitimate stu- ofﬁclany amved what d°_eS that ﬁll‘ Check for drafts nearwmdows V
and the most faithful fan base of any Phish feels obligated to cram into ev— dio album, the group should have real- {mean to those ofus cradled m LeX' and doors’ and try to block the ‘mes
band since the Grateful Dead. ltvs all ery measure. ized that more goes into the process ington?' Well, it means new rules you ﬁnd. Electric blankets can be a
enviable State of affairs, to Sal, the some Songs Survive this Self_ than merely culling concert jams to for getting around and having fun. big help overnight, but be wary of
least in du l g en C el four minutes. kDrivewitlt1.care: Nlpmatltlerlwhat, slpace heatehs. Almost ehery weekl ).
Commel-- “Gu uteavski S l Worse still, Phish atlem ts to ta e your ime w en riving t ere’sanot erstoryint enationa
elal legletles aim: on a filfh P"°‘° °°““"'5y °f “’“’“’-P“'5"-°°‘“ Squeeze all of its musical ldefs into around. Four-wheel drive does news aboutadeadly ﬁre caused by
aside’ plllsll rhythmic idea Album cover for The Story these foupmihute bursts. nothing on ice, and for those ofus an unsupervised space heater. If
has fourofthe coupled with of the Ghost, Phish’s latest Albums like Rift used this c0m_ used to ﬂatter lands orwarmertem- you mustuse one, keep itaway from
most talented an engaging (but not very impressive) positional technique Successfully’ peratures, the road corditions can curtains and other ﬂammables, and h
musicians 0f m e l o d y , l'ei€aS€- carving and molding Phish’s: ideas be um “On t let It
01” genera‘ changing con- into comfortable, ﬂowing song struc— p1eaS_a',my “,1” 8}”
tion. tinuously yet Even “Wading inthe Velvet Sea,” tures. Surpnsmg mghtwmle
Few m“si' never compro— despite its compositional predictabil- In Ghost, however, the virtuosity is A”°,w ex’ you 516"?’-
Clans haw misin g the ity, ﬂoats pleasantly withaspare drum continually overzealous, and the quilt tra “me to Staymg “
the” W7‘ catchy sophis- groove and delightful melodies that of musical diversity Phish has resided get where ,we": Even
Calm)’ ability tication inher- have become one of Phish’s trade— under for so long seems gaudy and in- you need If. , you
to combine ent in a well- marks. complete. togmkéep did“ t get
iazza mcka written song. Unfoitunately,the ﬁin stops here. Die-hard Phish fans claim the an 1c_e your ﬂu it
barbershop “Limb by On excruciatingly tedious band shouldn’t try to work in the Scraper 1“ shot last
and blue- Limb,” studio, and that the your car’ falmhereis
grassa laid possibly live show is the only don“ slam hope £0:
underneath t ll e ~ Y 0 U T )’0U- 3
t ll e l l alhum,S ?lpSph(::::ti)f¢OhueTf:::f brakes in Photo by Emily Barnles/Photo Editor llealtllyl l,
u ll l cl ll e l l, plloiocollnesy olwww_plllsll_mm heslsohgl malice. Albums like slippery Bundle up, W&L: winter is here. avoiding
Pleasmg POP Phish could disappoint its fans features E  I Junta and Riff, h0W- Spois and . , . . fatty foods
extellm with its latest recording. melodies ever’ render this ar_ don tgo out at all ifyou re worried and empty calories. And above all,
one is that coh_ gumehl false. about it. If you re going someplace exercise! You ll stay warmer and fit- I‘

ter ifyou can find time to work out
in these cold months. If the out-
door conditions are unsuitable,
head to the gym and ride the exer-
cise bike for an hour. Winter is an ill
easy time to forget about ﬁtness, so
don’t let it happen to you!

Fun winter activities: There’s
snow on the ground, so sand vol-
leyball is out ofthe question. Now ‘
what? Well, the Homestead resort
in Hot Springs is probably the near-
est ski spot, so the intrepid can try
out the slopes there. The Home— lll
stead also features ice skating.

Locally, the snow can be a
source offun, as well. You can build
a snowman, have a snowball ﬁght,
make snow angels orjust watch the 3‘
snow fall. Stock up on hot cocoa,
surfthe Internet or plan your spring
break vacation.

Above all, think warm thoughts
and remember: summer is just
around the corner.

where you might get trapped in your
car, bring along blankets and water.

Walking hazards: The side-
walks around here can be worse
than the roads, and slick--bottomed
shoes are a fall waiting to happen.
Stay as much as possible on con-
crete that’s only wet, but if you must
walk on something frozen, snow
might be better than ice. At least
snow has a chance for traction, es-
pecially on the hills around campus.

Dressing for the weather: Don’t
sacriﬁce your health for the sake of
fashion. It’s cold outside, so dress
for it! Coats and gloves are a must,
hats are helpful (much of your heat
is lost through your head), and
even snow boots come in handy
for this time of year. Layer your
clothes ifyou need to, especially if
you have a long walk to and from
campus. When the temperatures
plummet, don’t stay outside longer
than you absolutely must.

Phish has the abil-
ity to record, when the
group puts their self-
indulgent, abstract
demonstrations aside
and focus on the craft
of songwriting.

On this album, Phish
fails to transfer its live
abilities to record be-
cause of its unwilling-
ness to sacriﬁce style
for substance.

The Story of the
Ghost stands as a testa-
ment to what happens
when musicians, in their
frantic attempts to im-
press their audience,
Iose sight oftheir songs
and lose touch with their
listeners. It is a disap-
pointment; Phish has
proved that it can do
better.

I   540-463-7371
SPRING BREAK

FROM $159 PER WEE|(‘°‘

*Parents’ Discount*
*Newly Renovated*

2 QUTDQQRHEAT‘-f‘ D 0 z ..        *Free HBO with Remote*
:s  EACH FRONT , ~.
LAZY RIVERRIDE -‘SUITES UP TO 10 PERSONS
SAILBOATS - Tll<| BEACH BAR - JET SKIS» PARASAILS

“HOME OF THE WORLD'S LONGEST KEG PARTY"
FREE DRAFT BEER ALL WEEK LONG-(ALL FOR INFO!
1-800-488-8828

www.sandpiperbeacon.com (*rates per person)

*No Smoking Rooms*

*Free Continenal Breakfast*

17403 FRONT BEACH ROAD ~ PANAMA CITY BEACH, FL 32413

 

" JANUARY 11, 1999

  Sibkrs

PAGE 5

‘Men’s basketball come up short against ’Noke

By Brendan Harrington

' S TA FF WRITER

Although the names and faces change year after year,
the Roanoke Maroons have simply dominated the Wash-
ington and Lee Generals during the past decade.

‘1 The trend continued on Saturday aﬁemoon at the Warner
Center as the Maroons (5-6, 2-3 ODAC) used a lightning
quick 20-2 run in the middle of the second half to down the
Generals (3-7, 2-4 ODAC) 72-63 in an emotional contest.

Roanoke has now defeated the Generals eight straight times
dating back to the 1994-1995 season, when Veme Canﬁeld was
still at the hehn for the Generals. All told in the 1990s, W&L is
2-17 against the Maroons, their biggest rivals.

“Streaks are streaks, you can’t get caught up in that,”

4 said W&L head coach Kevin Moore. “ It’s basketball -
we have to play to our ability and win the game.”

Early in the second half, it did not appear as though the
Generals would be headed toward their eighth straight
loss to Roanoke. W&L led 41-30 with 16:04 left to play

‘ when Roanoke stole the momentum away from the Gener-
als, using a 20-2 run over a period of6:48 to take a 50-43

lead that the Maroons would never relinquish.

“They just kicked our [butts] on the glass,” Moore said.
“We’re right there battling for it but we don’t box out and
we try to tip it. We’re not going to winjumping contests.”

“They came out real hungry in the second half,”jun-
ior forward Scott Hudson said, who led the Generals with
14 points. “I don’t know how much time it was, but I
looked up at the clock and couldn’t believe we went from
being up 1 1 to down by eight in what seemed like a couple
of minutes.”

At the height of the run, Roanoke scored six points in
less than 20 seconds after sophomore guard Brad
Dunleavy stole freshman guard Ben Johns’ inbound pass
from underneath the Generals’ basket and dunked it home,
cutting the Generals lead to 43-39 with 12:36 left to play.

Things then went from bad to worse for the Generals,
as junior forward Rich Peterson picked up his fourth and
fifth personal fouls in a span of 19 seconds and was sent
to the bench with 12:03 remaining in the game after scoring
only two points. It was the second consecutive game in
which Peterson fouled out, and was virtually ineffective
because of foul trouble.

-Women’s basketball marooned

By Tod Williams

STAFF WRITER

‘ The Generals had played the Roanoke College Ma-

roons only eight times prior to Saturday’s matchup
in the Warner Center. In Washington and Lee’s his-
tory, the Generals have never beaten the Maroons.

At For a brief moment on Saturday afternoon, things ap-
peared it might be different this time.

The Maroons raced out to an early 18-6 lead only
five minutes into the game, but the Generals quickly
responded with their own run of 23-1 1 to tie the game
at 29 apiece withjust over four minutes to play in the
first half. Both teams managed two more free throws
as the half expired, leaving the game in a 31-31 tie at
the break.

; The Generals continued to hang with Roanoke as
the second half began, jumping up 34-31 on the Ma-
roons. The game was again tied at 36-36 with 16:20
left in the game after W&L freshman guard Sarah
Schmidt banged what seemed to be a three-pointer,

3 but her toe was on the arch. On Noke’s ensuing pos-
session on the other end ofthe court, junior Maroon

center Sarah Dingledine dropped in an easy two on a ‘

hard backside cut as Roanoke went up 38-36 and
earned the lead for good.

The lone senior on the General squad, co-Captain
Chrissy Burghardt, nailed a 12-footer with 14:25 left
in the game to pull the Generals to only three away at
41-38, but that was the closet W&L would get.

g‘ Roanoke (7-2, 5-0 ODAC) took care of business as
they closed out their 71-56 win over the Generals.

The story of the game for the Generals was the
dominant presence of freshmen in the lineup. Two
freshmen started, and within the final minute ofplay,

four ofthe five Generals on the ﬂoor were freshmen.
The box score backs this up as well. Freshman Jes-
sica Mentz posted a 19-10 double double, which in-
cluded his career high points total. Freshman Megan
Babst came in off the bench to give her own 11-11
double double performance. Junior guard Ansley
Miller dropped in 10 for the General’s cause.

Miller knew that the Generals loss came from their
own shortcomings. “Our defense was okay,” she said,
“but we just couldn’t score. We shot a lot better in
the first half, but we just didn’t get it done in the
second half.” The statistics back up Miller’s state-
ments. The Generals shot 36 per cent in the first half,
but fell to 27 per cent in the second. The team was
very consistent from the charity stripe, shooting 62
per cent on the day. Miller also said another thorn in
the Generals’ side was the absence of Jessica Morton,
who only played 12 minutes, and only two minutes
during the second half.

On Thursday evening, it was a different story at
the Warner Center, as W&L rolled over Eastern Men-
nonite 71-41. Again, both Mentz and Miller chalked
up double-digit totals, 14 and 13, respectively. Fresh-
man Carter Thomas also had a stellar night.’ Starting
at guard she had eight points and six rebounds, but

more importantly, Thomas came within one assist of ‘

W&L’s record of 10 in a single game.

The Generals (2-7, 1-4 ODAC) have an ODAC-filled
week ahead-ofthem, as they travel to Lynchburg Col-
lege on Tuesday to face the 3-7 Hornets. On Thurs-
day W&L will host Hollins, and on Saturday the girls
will travel to Randolph-Macon.

Miller looks for a strong showing from the team on 1

Tuesday. “[The game] is on our hands,” she said.
“We just have to take care of business.”

It
Th's eek for the G e al
I
Monday
"‘ Men’s basketball @ Dickinson
Tuesday
it Women’ s basketball @ Lynchburg
Wednesday
ki Men’s basketball @ Lynchburg
Thursday
‘, Women’s basketball vs. Hollins 7 p.m.
Friday
1? Women’s swimming vs. Buffalo State 7 p.m.
Saturday
4 Men’s basketball vs. Randolph-Macon 3 p.m.
' Women’s basketball @ Randolph-Macon
Women’s swimming vs. Catholic 2 p.m.
I7
1749 1999 , , ,
 Bicenquinquagenary Bulletin
' .
Need another reason to be kind to strangers ?
I
Consider the story ofDoremus Gymnasium. In 1910 dore Doremus bequeathed a substantial amount of
a student met Commodore and Mrs. Doremus, north- his estate to Washington and Lee. Upon the
em philanthropists, as they were walking on campus. Commodore’s death Mrs. Doremus gave the $75,000
1,1 The young man put aside his books and proceeded necessary for the construction ofDoremus gymna-
to give them a tour of the university. They were so slum. Upon her death the University received
impressed by the student’s friendliness that Commo- $1,500,000 from their estate.

“We need Rich out on the court,” said senior captain
Kevin Cobbin. “Even ifthey’re questionable calls, he can’t
be getting in foul trouble.”

Unhappy with the call that sent Peterson out of the game,
an illegal screen away from the ball, Moore picked up a
technical foul for arguing with the referee. The Maroons
capitalized on both of the technical free-throws and then
junior forward Kyle Murphy nailed a three—pointer on the
resulting possession, giving the Maroons the lead 46-43
with 11:53 left in the game.

“The tide had turned already before the technical foul,
I’ll take the blame for the technical, but that’s not the differ-
ence in the game,” said Moore. “But I felt there was some
injustice with Peterson. [The official] needs to show me
where that ﬁfth foul was.”

“I don’t usually criticize officiating because it’s not usu-
ally a big factor in the game,” Hudson said. “But I think it
was today. The last two games I think the officials have
taken Rich out of the game. 1 think we’re getting robbed.”

During the next eight minutes of the game, the Roanoke
lead hovered around five points, but the Maroons pulled
away in the final three minutes to claim the 72-63 victory.

Dunleavy added his second dunk ofthe game as time ex-
pired to put a final exclamation point on the comeback.

“I don’t think we buckled down the way we should
have and we let it slip away,” Cobbin said. “But we will
learn from the mistake and move on — we’ve got to.”

Roanoke guard Paris Butler led all players with 16 points

and three other Maroons finished in double figures. Sopho- .

more Jason Strickland scored 15, Murphy had 14, and
sophomore center Alex Phillips had 1 1.

For the Generals, sophomore guard Will Ballard had 12
points and sophomore guard Chad Braley added 10 to go
along with Hudson’s team-high of 14.

Roanoke shot only 28% from the field for the game,
while W&L shot 42%. The Maroons held a significant ad-
vantage at the foul line as they visited the charity stripe
more than three dozen times and were 21-3 7. The Generals
took only 16 foul-shots and hit nine of them.

The Generals next travel to Dickinson on Monday night
for a non—conference match-up.

“We’ll do our best to try and get a win up at Dickinson
and get back on track,” Cobbin said. “That’s all we can do,
we have no other options.”

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

Coach Dadio-Campbell gives the team a pep talk before Saturday’s contest against Roanoke.

Wrestling pins down victory

By Steele Cooper

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee wrestling team posted
its first Centennial Conference win sincejoining the
conference this year. The. Generals defeated Johns
Hopkins University (37-12) during the W&L Qua-
drangular Meet on Saturday morning. W&L fell to
Davidson (10-32) and Pensacola Christian (21-31) at
Saturday’s meet.

Junior 133-pounder Chad Casto led the Generals
once again with two wins and a forfeit. Casto won
his match against JHU with a 3-0 score and won his

Davidson match with a 7-1 score. His third victory
ofthe day came from a Pensacola Christian defeat.
Several wrestlers that scored two wins on the
day also led the Generals. Sophomore John Valen-
tine (174 lbs.) won his matches against JHU and
Davidson. Freshman 157-pounder Ivan Zdandov
defeated his JHU and Pensacola Christian oppo-
nents. Junior Alex McManimen (184 lbs.) scored
wins in his matches against JHU and Davidson.
Next Saturday, W&L will travel to Swarthmore
to wrestle in the Swarthmore Invitational. The Gen-
erals will be back in the Doremus Gymnasium on
Saturday, January 23 for the W&L Invitational.

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

Sophomore Jeff Paul pins his opponent during the W&L Quadrangular on Saturday.

 

 

PAGE 6

S

(‘I112 ﬁling-‘Glam lﬂhi

ORORITIES

9

 

JANUARY 11, 1999

J enny Alley

Kate Bidwell
Kate Blocher
Alicia Brandt

Liz Brustin

Katie (‘edarholm
lee Charbonnet
Sarah Cohen
Maggie Fagan
Leslie Fishbeck
Courtenay Fisher
Eline Haenebalcke
Ricka Hildebrand
Diana Hoshall
Laura lngoldsby

Elizabeth Kelsey
Anne Lachiewicz
Berry Lowden
Alexis MacDonald
Heather Mahaney
Blair Manning
Shelby McGrain
Sam McLemore

9 Jess Mentz

Drew Powers
Kristin Pranke
Iindsay Ruckert
Lizzie Swarm
Carter Thomas
Jessica Warner

QM/9, wager
5/gage/A ammx
Wfeyan £84551
r7(a/5/een $a1'rJ
9(ee_/y ﬂafer
6006‘/an ﬁasfin

9G2e//e (suans
(Si/uana 33””
(Samar;/[a Qaz-5z‘sc£
8/ise groves

5,-//, Jﬁ;/ﬁeman

year: 77(ar1'e yenninys

761%.:/1'12 Garroff ,7(a/ie yoﬁnson
Wary grennan ,7(a/e Wfafan
ﬁes: @u.Tan/ (Sa//y Way:

  

Cozzyra/u/a/[0123 new memgers

  
   

Jrappa

g 01221224

 
 

61': Xacozy
3J5!/ney .77a1'son.s
jfa/ey gjeno/eryz-ass
yetma ﬁwﬁe

Carof n Tress/y
Caro/ine 73”-./a’,
(3/oise Tries]
zeryen were//0
am,-/, are,-J

Cjyn/fizz £31121‘/I

(Sc//ie gm, (S/rany
CS/epfanie csweel

oar, gay/or
yzaryare/—J{un/er garner
97[a1-ie//e Qlryufarl
Baa:-en Zﬂemfeff
97(annin_y ZUI//arJ

%-mmm gm//Z24
./wta %m/
,5,” fay;

ghéaﬂna <>&Aa{04'

9%//W  ¢

ﬁmfen v 
-.9$naAu/a .%€a4me//
.54» JVJJW
.%’ezA ./Vwtm
Wm‘ ﬂmdamza
A/4,, ﬁméa
./yéoi Wm
./wad l//,maa/I
9%” %"%W’
ﬁdan 
@0049! 7%/oé

ROBERT E. LEE SIGNATURES

FOR SALE

Clipped signature with closing w/ CDV
Document signed "R. E. Lee, Lt. Engrs"
Letter Signed, Lexington, VA, 1870
Lee Signed CDV
AND

Washington College Diploma, 1867

$3000
$4000
$6500
$5500

$4500

Other Lee's: Fitzhugh, G.\W.C., "Rooney" & Lee's Father—In—Law

Also Available: Lincoln, Grant, Mosby, Longstreet, Ashby,

Beauregard, Early, A.P. Hill, Imoben, etc., etc.

Great Framing, Great Service, Great History

Original Frameworks

1 North Main St. Lexington, 464-6464

M—F 10-6, Sat 9-4, New Manager

T

 

 

t @112 Iking-E11111 Iﬂhi by I 9
 SORORITIES 99 

 

Congratulations to  3 ﬂy 3 M"

the Gamma
pledge class of

Kappa Delta

  
  
  
   
   

   

   

 

 
 
 
  
   

      
  
   
 
 
  
 
      
    

    
Rebekah Ahn Tracy Johnson
Ellen Antrum Lauren Kearney
Michele Backus Amanda Kelley
Ann Baskervill Summers Kimbrough
Brooke Belasco Sylvia Kokis
Valerie Bruneau Peyton Lane °
Julie Carskadon Sarah Lyon 1  a
Andrea Ceccarelli Stacy McLoughlin , ,
Lindsay Cooper Divya Mohan
Marisa Davis _ Kayse Nelson
Caroline Dumas Rebecca Ostendorff -
Brooke Evenson Emily Owens  _ ° 0   0 Mﬂbamtll/‘mmlf
Amanda Fischer Lillian Pace  it 0 lmpledge rim
Caitlin Fitzrandolph Lauren Paxton _   
Graham Frankel Lucy\Rankin 
Kirsten Gladding Emily Seale ‘i|;j'-m??s]i;iffe,r
Gray Harden Lauren Stearns  

  

Katherine Houstoun

 

 

teed Credit Cards with Credit Limis G04/e4~,E
Up To $10,000 Within Days! ‘°4~»»o,,,

NO CREDIT, NO J OB, NO PARENT SIGNER, NO SECURITY DEPOSIT!
no credit ° bad credit 0 no income?
6‘ ‘       If You Thinl(You A   r      

 

aagﬂf’ Guaran

          

O

        

Can't Get A Credit %
Card, Think Again.

ant VISA & MasterCard Credit Cards

  ORDER FORM    

 '    want Credit Cards immediately.
0

CRA, PO BOX 16662, ATLANTA, GA 30321

 
 

 
 

"I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

J

' y A t t Z’
Cit .................................................................................................................... .. S a e ............................................... .. Ip .................................................... ..
.
Signature .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ..

Tired of Bein Turned Down?

   

 

 

jjj1:1:1:11:11::1:
F6
' (n
U)
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
n-jjjjjjjmjjjmjmxjj

 

 

Humor Page

PAGE 8

LAST WORD

JANUARY 11, 1999

A brief look back at the Twentieth Century

By Kevin McManemin

215T CENTURY SCH/20/D M-IN

The Twentieth Century. The bloodiest hundred years
in human history. Joseph Stalin. Adolph Hitler. Bob Saget.
A time of great change. New ideas. Incomplete sentences.

The Last Word presents this brief, illustrated history of
the 20th century as part of our continuing effort to be like
every other publication. In the coming months you can bet
every arm of this great squid called the media (newspa-
pers, magazines, television, radio, intemet gossip columns,
teen fanzines, cookbooks, off-Broadway musical comedies,
telegraphs, graffiti, etc.) will be running retrospectives on
the previous decade, century and millennium. We wanted
to get ours in first. Take that, Newsweek!

So, without very much more ado, we present:

The Twentieth Century

“the syphilitic sore on the scrotum of history”

The Zeroes -— All for naught

At the turn of the century, the entire world was owned
by three mega-corporations: Standard Oil, Carnegie Steel
and the British Monarchy. Actually not much has changed
since then. Standard Oil was bought out by Microsoft in
1992 and Carnegie Steel was acquired by Sony in a merger
with Time—Warner. The British monarchy sold all its hold-
ings to Ted Turner but still retains Buckingham Palace, its
corporate logo and the right to embarrass itself publicly.

Not much else happened in the nineteen naughts. Some-
thing about a Progressive movement and a Great White
Fleet, I think, but in order for me to tell you anything more
about them I’d have to do actual research and that’s not
bloody likely. So the Progressive Movement was a . . . uh
. . . part of a symphony by Stravinski and the Great White
Fleet was a meeting of obese Klan members.

The Tens — El Waro Grande

The Great War (later renamed “World War One” after a
greater one came along) was almost as long and brutal as
some of the poetry it would inspire. Mankind saw his belief
in the good of science explode in a burst of mustard gas
and machine gun fire. Europeans were being slaughtered
at almost twice the rate of New York City public school
students.

Let’s take a gander at the major players:

The Germans — It was barely forty years since Presi-

dent Otto Van Buren united Prussia and Bavaria into a
single country called “Prussvaria” (later renamed “Ger-

many”). But in that short time Germany had come a
long way — building a massive navy powerful
enough to be thor- oughly and consis-

  
  
  

tently sunken by the _ British and an army
of men in neat ’ pointy little helmets.
By head-butting opponents,theGer-
many army became one of the nine or

ten most feared ﬁghting forces of the day.

The Great British (also known as “The English”) —
What the British wanted in World War One was simple: a
nice, dangerous front line to fill with Scots and Irishmen.
“Yes, Angus, Taevish, Seamus, you boys ﬁll in the trenches
there, I’ll just stay back here at base and sip me tea,” the
limey generals would say. “Oh, and mind the mustard gas,”
they’d add with a mischievous grin. Those wacky Brits!

The French — The French are to Europe what Ringo
was to the Beatles. When France heard Europe was releas-
ing a new war it merrily trudged along with the rest of the
group, despite the fact that it hasn’t been a major military
player since Napoleon. France had been using its national
energy on wastes of time like “art” and “literature.”

The Russians — The ‘Russians were so backward in
1914 even the Amish looked at them and said “You guys
need to modernize.” With something like 99.9999% of the
population living far below the poverty line, Russia was
the Mississippi of Europe, only a hell ofa lot colder.

The Belgians — Historic accounts always overlook
King Leopold and the Belgians. This one is no exception.

The Americans —— The Americans were like the guy
who shows up at the last hour of the party when everyone
else is tired and leaving, then empties the keg and takes
credit for polishing it off. Never mind that Russia and France
had been sucking that tap all night and were now passed
out on the couch, America came in, chugged the last half-
a-plastic-cup left in the keg and declared loudly, “shit, you
guys are lightweights.” No wonder the Europeans despise
us.

The Twenties — These dang young’uns

In 1919 our Congress, possibly while drunk, passed one
of the most inane laws in the history of jurisprudence —
Prohibition. And so, for the first week or so of the 1920s’,
alcohol was nearly somewhat hard to get.

On the sunnier side ofthings, the twen-
ties were a time of great prosperity at home
and abroad, especially among mobsters,
thanks to Prohibition. The only place that
didn’t experience prosperity was Germany,
where inﬂation was rising faster than the
hemlines on flappers’ skirts.

Flappers were wild, loose l920’s gals

who ﬂaunted the morals of their society;
wild, loose women who are now our great-
grandmothers, so talking about their sexual
exploits would be more than a bit disgust-
ing.

Yes, the roaring but rarely boring twen-
ties were a good time for all (‘‘all’’ meaning
“anyone with enough money to invest in
the stock market”). Suffragettes rallied for
chicks’ rights, idiots sat on ﬂagpoles for
some bizarre reason and sports idols like
Babe Ruth proved that even alcoholics
could be functioning members of society.

 

The Thirties — The birth of big,

bloated bureaucracy

Sports were still popular in the thirties, but different
sports: office ledgejumping, noose spinning and shotgun
shell swallowing. In 1929 the stock market crashed like an
iMAC computer, derailed like an AMTRACK train, send-
ing the country spiraling into depression faster than I re-
sort to cheap similes and metaphors.

Hoovertowns (named after Hoover vacuums as they
really sucked) sprung up across America, providing the
best in luxurious box living.

Franklin Roosevelt stepped in as President and brought
the country out of unemployment by hiring everyone to
lettered government agencies. FDR brought us the WPA,
TVA, FDIC, NBC, C-SPAN, UCLA, LMN OP, USSR, BBC-2,
AOL, CD-ROM, MXPX, and of course the SCTV.

But abbreviations would soon take a back seat to WWII.

The Forties —— Another bad sequel

By the end of the ’30s the German economy was in
shambles, so Adolph “move over Genghis, I want to be
history’s biggest asshole”‘HitIer decided on the brilliant
strategy of invading Poland — possibly the one country
in the world with a more pitiful economy than Germany -—
to solve the crisis. In re-
sponse England and
France declared war on
Germany. France sur-
rendered approximately
three minutes and nine-
teen seconds later, be-
fore the ink was even
dry on the declaration of
war.

Meanwhile, Japan
was engaged in bomb-
ing Pearl Harbor in a
day that will live in in-
famy but I can’t recall
right now. So the U.S.
trudged into the war
(only a couple of years late this time) and kicked some
major foreign ass. In 1945 the U.S. dropped da bomb on
Japan, ushering in a new era of warfare: an era when the
heroes were no longer the soldiers in the front but the
nerds in the labs.

When the war ended Europe and Japan were in pieces

_ (literally, pieces —— parts of Nagasaki were found as far

away as Greenland and what was left of Germany could be
collected and put in a brown paper bag). The United States

took the roll of international sugar daddy, dolling out sweet -

rewards to our allies and, ironically, even sweeter rewards
to our enemies.

The Fifties — A time for sensible footwear

In the ﬁfties hair was short, cars were big, Reds were
evil and cigarettes were healthy. Things made sense. People
liked Ike, men wore ties to work, people said “please” and
“thank you” in the name of something called “common
courtesy,” and everyone knew their place. In fact, the gov-
ernment passed out this chart for handy reference:

Your Race Your place
White Suburbs

Black Ghettos

Asian Asia

Latino Ancient Rome?

In the fifties people started protesting this injustice. In
I954 the landmark case of Brown vs. Board of Education
set down the historic propositions that:

1) Children should not go to their neighborhood public
schools when they can be expensively shipped several
hundred miles away for poorer quality education.

2) The “separate but equal” doctrine of blacks and
whites is wrong—— any objective look at basketball ability
will tell you that they’re not equal.

Yes, the ﬁﬁies began the long but necessary Civil Rights
battle. Just think: the perfect harmony between the races
we now enjoy wouldn’t be possible were it not for the
gains made in the fifties.

THE SlXTIES==
SOCIETY GETS

ILURRY

A great way to
make your parents un-
comfortable is to ask
them about the sixties.

Firsthand historical
accounts of the sixties are sketchy at best. Psychedelic
drugs (the word psychedelic coming from the Greek roots
psyche, or mind, and delic, or holy crap the colors in my
veins are talking to me) played a big part in the sixties, so
remember to take all accounts on sixties life with a grain of
salt (or some white powdery substance).

Here now are some actual over-sentimentalized tales of
the actual sixties from actual pathetic aging baby boomers:

 

“The sixties began in 1964 when four lovable inop-
topped Liverpudlians (Sean Lennon, Yoko Ono, Jim
Morrison and an inflatable raft called “Reginald”) landed
at Idlewild airport (later renamed JFK after JFK Jr.) and
appeared on the old Gilbert and Sullivan show where they
performed their famous “I have a dream” speech. That’s all
I remember.”

——Sally Hainsworth (formerly Lucy in the Sky with
Methedrine)

“In the sixties there was a war or something somewhere.
Guys shooting people. No, wait, that was ‘Gunsmoke’ 
—Dr. Lawrence Feinbaum (formerly Flower

Moonchild)

 

The Seventies — A decade-long hangover

Bad trip, man.

As millions ofhippies came down from their highs, so
did hippie society come down from its lofty ideals of peace
and happiness and universal love, replacing them with
ideals such as paying the mortgage on
time and good dental hygiene. The bril- E
liant experimentation of psychedelic I
rock was replaced with the unrestrained
suckiness of disco.

Most importantly, the seventies
made politics the societal joke it is to-
day. In the sixties, we had presidents
like Johnson and Nixon —- men who you
could really hate with a passion! But
Watergate taught us that politicians
were not so much comic book
archvillians as they were petty thugs.
The decade ended with the likes of
Gerald Ford and Jimmy Carter at the
helm. You can neither really love nor
hate Jimmy Carter. All anyone can do is
acknowledge his existence.

And so a general malaise (thanks,
Jimmy) set in over the country and
squelched the passion previously evi-
dent in public life. Finally, people could
start focussing on what really mattered:
themselves.

 

The Eighties — Reaganomics, low-cal
frozen yogurt and ALF

Most scholars now agree that nothing of remote cul-
tural value came from the 1980s. Musically the ’80s went
from bad — new wave rock — to worse — glam rock —
and somehow ended up
even a step below that
with rap. Rap is like mu-
sic, but take away the
musicallpart and you
have got rap.

Along with the de-
cline of everything
good and noble about
mankind, the 1980s saw
the rise ofthe Yuppie.
This development was
made possible by the
invention of the cell
phone, which let

 

Yuppies communicate with other Yuppies while simulta-
neously compensating for small genitals by inflating their
self-importance. The most popular recreational activity
among Yuppies was divorce. The Yuppies imported every-
thing: Italian wines, Gennan cars, French arrogance.

By 1987, however, the Yuppies had all maxed out their '

credit cards and stopped buying stuff they didn’t need.
The stock market plummeted. President Reagan responded
with swift, decisive action: canceling his scheduled nap to
hold a press conference in which he categorkxzlly denied
ever being told about the stock market crash.

The Nineties — www.whatever.com

So, it’s, like, the end of the century or something. Big
deal. F in-de-siecle ennui or whatever. I guess.

The nineties saw, like, the information revolution. Infor-
mation is, like, all over, you know? It’s like on the internet
and stuff. All over
the internet. The
Internet rules. a

A lot of stuff
happened in the
nineties, like the dis-
mantling of Eastern
European Commu-
nism. We no longer
fear nucl:./ar attack
from the Ruskies; we
now fear nuclear at-
tack from crazed militia goons living in lduno bunkers. Se-
riously.

Oh, and dude, guess what? The Pres was like boinking
his intern in the nineties and there was a lot of stuff about
it on C-SPAN like impeachment or whatever, you know, but
I didn’t really watch that.

Well, that’s about it for the nineties. We’ve got, like,
another year left in this century or something. Maybe it’ll
suck or maybe it’ll be cool. Whatever.

Things are okay.

That’s the basic story of our century. Americans went
from caring about Europe to caring about our society to
caring about ourselves to caring about beating the high
score on “Doom."

No one knows what will happen in years to come, but if
mankind approaches the twenty—first century with the same
genius, dignity, prudence, spirit, courage, vitality, passion,
understanding, enterprise and honor we applied in the
twentieth, we can be sure of one tliing.

We’re all f“‘**ing doomed.

Reserves.

Leadership Opportunity

 
  
 
   

Basic Camp this Summer and
experience a fun and challenging
adventure on a successful path.

...-:.I

ourhancs 0 getting 11 on-
campus scholarship for attending
Basic Camp are 50%.

End Result, a great job as a 2LT in the
Active Army, National Guard or

See CPT Whittaker, ARMY
ROTC at (540) 464-7187

 

 

