  

 

‘ VOLUME 101, N0. 12

«SAB captures
Black Crowes

Rock ‘n’ roll band scheduled for FD

in By Hollister Hovey «

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

Washington and Lee will see the

band that U.K. Music Weekly called
I; “the most rock’n’roll rock ‘n’roll band
in the world.”

Last monday, the Student Activi-
ties Board confirmed the Black Crowes
as the headline act for this year’s

‘ Fancy Dress weekend, Thursday,
March 4 in the Pavilion.

“We’ve been trying to get them for

awhile,” SAB president Wes

q Annstrong said. “They’ve just come
out with a new album, so this is sort of
a great kick-off.”

Their new album, “By Your Side”
won critical acclaim instantly. It re-
ﬂects much of the early true-blue rock
of the band’s debut album. Armstrong
feels the Washington and Lee student
body will respond very well to the

5 Crowes’ classic rock ‘n’roll style.
“This might even be bigger than Wide-
spread Panic,” he said.

According to Billboard magazine,
the refreshed rock ‘n’roll sound on

‘‘ “By Your Side” did not come without
some pain on the part of the band:
Before sessions for the album began,

the Crowes ﬁred longtime guitarist
Marc Ford and founding bassist
Johnny Colt quit soon thereafter.

Atlanta-born brothers and
frontmen, Chris and Rich Robinson
immediately began reconstructing the
band. The result: Sven Pipien on bass,
Audley Freed on Guitar, and Eddie
Harsch completing the line—up on key-
boards.

Their “new” sound is compared
to British Invasion greats like the
Rolling Stones and Led Zeppelin.
They also find influence in home-
grown tunes. Southern-fried soul
has always been a big inspiration;
the Black Crowes’ breakthrough hit
was a cover of Otis Redding’s “Hard
to Handle.”

“I’m happy SAB got a band that
will appeal to the whole Washington
and Lee community and not to just a
small group of students,” junior
Ashley Marano said.

“I’m glad that they’re not quite as
outdated as The Band or as obscure
as The Roots. Too bad there’s not
going to be a beer garden.”

For more information, visit the
Black Crowes website at
www. tallest. com.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

 

. U112 ﬂing-tum {ﬂirt

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsIrv’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

MONDAY, JANUARY 18, 1999

Loyal pledges enthusiastically cheer on their future Phi Gamma Delta brothers Matt Gooch and Rick Black during last
weekend’s men’s swimming meet.

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

ii-9,0

Grammy award-winner Barbara Bailey Hutchison
performs in the GHQ. Besides playing for college
crowds, Hutchison has been featured in commercials for
companies including Hallmark cards, McDonalds and

‘ti United Airlines. Despite her international fame, less
than 20 students attended last Friday night’s concert.

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

International performing arts
series brings culture to W&L

By Eszter Pados

STAFF WRITER

The international perfonning arts
series at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity was started last fall, but already
can be called a success, according to
William Klingelhofer, director of Inter-
national Education at W&L.

The Office of International Educa-
tion, which sponsors the series, was
created about a year ago to serve the
needs of international students on
campus and to promote international
awareness campus—wide.

According to Klingelhofer, the arts
play an important role in our aware-
ness of culture. Therefore, he said that
the primary purpose of the series is to
expose people to new and different

Fall athletes

receive

-Compiled from staff reports

Though their seasons are over,
members of the W&L fall sports teams
haven’t stopped winning.

FOOTBALL: Six players earned
places on the Roanoke Times Division
II, III All-State Football team.

Junior quarterback Christian
Batcheller, senior offensive lineman
Marc Granger, sophomore defensive
back Will Baker, senior tight end David
Ritchey, sophomore running back
Marc Watson, and senior defensive
lineman Ben Middendorf were placed
on the squad.

Batcheller garnered First Team
honors after completing 167 of280
attempts (59.6%) for 1,813 yards and
11 touchdowns on the season. His
118.43 quarterback rating led the
league. Batcheller was a First Team
All-ODAC pick and an Honorable
Mention VaSID All-State pick ear-
lier this season. He was a Second
Team All-State selection by the
Roanoke Times last season.

Granger earned First Team laurels
for the second straight year, leading a
W&L offensive line that allowed just
19 sacks in 285 passing situations and
helped the Generals average 317.0
yards of total offense per game, the
highest total in over 30 years. He is a
two-time First Team All-ODAC hon-
oree and VaSID All-State selection.

awards

Baker backed up his First Team All-
ODAC and VaSID All-State selection
by being named to the First Team as
well. He led the W&L defense with 84
tackles and four interceptions, and
was second on the team in pass break-
ups with eight.

Ritchey earned Second Team
honors after catching 25 passes for
365 yards and three touchdowns on
the season. He paced W&L with a
14.6 yards per catch average and had
the Generals’ longest pass recep-
tion (52 yards) ofthe season. Earlier
this season, he was named Second
Team All-ODAC and First Team
VaSID All-State.

Watson earned second team hon-
ors after rushing for 823 yards and
seven touchdowns. He also set a new
W&L record for all-purpose yards
(1,500) in a season. Watson was a First
Team All-ODAC selection.

Middendorf earned Second Team
All-State honors after making 62 tack-
les and team leader in tackles for loss
(9 for -18 yards) and sacks (2.5).

MEN ’S SOCCER:Senior back Mikel
Parker was named the Virginia College
Division Men’s Soccer Player of the
Year. Senior forward Sam Chase earned
First Team All-State honors, as did jun-
ior midﬁelderlamie Parker.

See AWARDS on page 5

cultures and provoke awareness of
culture as a global phenomena. He
said that the series will go beyond the
cultures most known to us, that is,
those of America and Western Europe.

So far, three events of the series
have been held, all three from India.
The first two were performances of
North Indian classical music, while the
third one was a performance of tradi-
tional Indian dances. Besides
Klingelhofer’s special interest and
specialization in Indian culture, he sees
the three—paIt Indian series as a chance
for audiences to get a more in-depth
feeling for one specific culture. “In
addition,” Klingelhofer said, “Ameri-
cans respond well to Indian culture.”

Klingelhofer hopes that the series
will represent the world. He is plan-
ning to invite cultural performers from
Latin America, Europe, Asia and Af-
rica. Perforrnances he has in mind in-
clude Peking Acrobats and Irish and
Scottish musicians.

These performances tend to get ex-
pensive, Klingelhofer said. While the
office initially financed the cultural se-
ries by dipping into the International
Education operating budget, the
school later committed an annual fund
to the series.

“We hope for three or four [perfor-
mances] a year,” Klingelhofer said. He
also said- that he hopes that the series
will be a permanent part of W&L life.

Students who attended the con-
certs were impressed.

“I think that they were great,” se-

nior Isis Kirby—O’Connell, said. “We
needed something like this at this
school because of our lack of diver-
sity, and it promotes an appreciation
for other cultures.”

In the future, the ofﬁce willattempt
to coordinate these performances with
classes focusing on speciﬁc regions
being taught at the time, Klingelhofer
said. He added that the Indian perfor-
mances were well coordinated with
Professor Joan O’Mara’s art classes.
She recently introduced Indnn Art as
part of the curriculum.

“We also have a good Spanish de-
partment,” Klingelhofer said. “We
might coordinate a program with them
and their curriculum.”

Furthermore, there are some Irish
literature classes in the planning,
Klingelhofer said. If they are imple-
mented, he said that the ofﬁce will try
to attract an Irish performer.

The next performance will be on
Jan. 29 at 7:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel. It
will feature Andes Manta, performing
vibrant traditional music of the Andes
region on more than 35 musical instru-
ments. Performing groups of traditional
Irish and Scottish music will come to
town in early March.

The series has been successful so
far, Klingelhofer said.

Students, faculty and community
members had a chance to be exposed
to the “incredible richness of the cul-
tural world,” Klingelhofer said. “Over-
all, I am very happy with the turnout
and responses,” he said.

January 18, 1999
OPINION:

W&L1EE:

SPORTS:

LAST WORD:

@112 ﬂing-tum iﬂlri

Response to parking letter, “To the bastards who
harass me,” slackers add to suck factor

Millennium doom and gloom

Randy-Mac beats both basketball teams, men’s,
women’s swimming add to their win records

McManemin spins off own newspaper

PAGE 2

PAGES 3&4

PAGE 5

PAGE 6

 

@112 ﬁling-tum lﬂhi

   OPINION

In regard to the bastards who harass me 

  

JANUARY 18, 1999 p

 _;+’UOt€ of the Week: *1
Friday night, at around 3 a.m., I was awak- If you guys(l know_who ‘—‘*_"—‘*”" will win me over to your side? I love that, here at W&L, we can trust  ’
ened by a phone call from an on-campus exten- you are) want an apology '' I  "“~;. R)$I'l lhl Or is it just a way of having each other. We don’t have to like everybody, I‘
:sion. When I answered, some guy speaking in for anything I wrote that of-   Mike Agndlo (2 fun among yourselves at my but we know that they won’t steal your stuff, ({ ‘
tén obviously fabricated accent answered. fended you, you can have expense? Either way, you’ve hurt you or violate any rights you have as a ,. ‘

 

gone too far.

What REALLY bothers me is the sheer
callousness of you guys. As some dead
guy once said, “No man is an island.” I’m
far from an exception; I have family and
friends both at home and here who care
and worry about me. You think this makes it
any easier? Actually, that’s a stupid ques-
tion, I doubt you care. Contrary to their

person. Now I’m not so sure, and that’s

wrong. When shit like this happens to any- For  ' 
body, our cherished traditions of honor

and civility begin to go down the tubes. you can have me’

These traditions set W&L apart from any AV‘
other college in the nation, and without _Spunky Sophomore Girl

them, we're just another egghead school
in the middle of nowhere. W&L is a spe-
cial place, and if you want it to continue to

it. I never write with intent to piss anybody
off. I have entirely too much to won'y about
in my life without wasting any time on you. I
question your methods, however. If you had
approached me in person, sat down with me,
and talked with me about why I might have
been wrong and why it bothered you, I
would have listened intently, and I might
have apologized completely. Apparently,

He began by asking me general questions
ffhat led me to think he was merely a drunk
fprank caller. Before long, however, he began
{asking obviously ridiculous and insulting
:questions about this column, why I write it,
2:and my choice of topics. He called my writing
E‘.‘shitty” and basically said that in a couple of
iéirticles, I really had no idea what I was talking
{about This isn’t really important; what is im-

1}

'portant is that this is the second time I’ve we interpret “civility” differently. There’s wishes, I am NOT going to give in to you be, you'll quit doing this childish crap. I’ve i
received such acall, and I’ve never been given nothing wrong with that, but do you think and compromise my integrity and beliefs said my peace in the proper manner, and I
a fair chance to explain my side of the story. that your method of handling the situation because of your pettiness. challenge you to do the same.   

P

Make groceries
fat the grocery

Ok, I'll admit it. Sometimes I like to bake. I don’t care
who knows it. I like to get a big mixing bowl, ﬂour, milk,
some eggs, some spices, and go to town. My friends

the suck factor

Who are the justices of the Supreme Court? How many ,
articles of impeachment against President Clinton were
passed by the House? What is are the circumstances un-
der which a censure can take place?
Do you know the answers? If you are like most stu- _.,
dents on this campus, '

. . . . Z4: . . d . I ‘ d b

from home get a big kick out of calling me a sissy or ,.;»<~'*”  =2», Sir Lgac hnes you fo new is 3 5'3 ut
’“Betty Crocker” orjust “Betty.” I tell them “Duncan    Suck ac: h. :n 1:011 ?'e?
dammit. If you insist on ridiculing me, then it's Duncan  stephan'eB1amO 01 ac an t In a outmlt

makes no sense. We are
all intelligent people. We
are all capable of reading the newspaper, or watching tele-
vision, or listening to NPR on the radio. The question is
why aren't we doing it?

The inactivity of W&L students with regard to news, II
political and otherwise, is disgusting. The so-called politi-
cal organizations on campus are a prime example of this
slacker attitude. One would think that on a campus such
as W&L that is so slanted political involvement would be
overﬂowing. Well, look around. It's not. Sometimes I even
question my own involvement in it. I guess I stay in it in
hopes that one day we'll actually do something.

This laziness is not just political. Many do not know
the ﬁrst thing about what is going on around them. World i
news, national happenings, local events . . . they may as
well be in Sanskrit. Once again, I should not be surprised
by this considering that W&L students even breeze on by
the campus notices on email with a swift click on the delete
button. Geezl I bet if I went up to a random student he ’'
could not even giye,ine:'t,_he .4-A1-1, on the outcome of the x
'  wrestling match that .wa,s,h,eld the,night before. _

I have heard all the excuses ofwhy people can not take
two seconds to be informed. "I'm too busy," "I have tons
of homework," "I don't have a subscription to the newspa-
per," "It doesn't affect me." I don't remember the last time
you were "too busy" to go out. Come on! Honestly, out
of the seven hours you'll be in the library you will do solid
schoolwork for maybe six . . . and that's being generous. 7
No subscription? Well, that's kind of crazy considering
you manage to have a subscription to “Cosmo,” “People,”
“Sports Illustrated,” and “Playboy.” Finally, the next time
you say it does not affect you, think about what you just
said. Maybe then you'll see that all the apathy does is add
to the general suck factor of college students everywhere.

Hines, you schmoolies.” They say, “Ok, Betty.” (Why
am I friends with these people? Hey, I take what I can
get.) I'll stop trying to defend my masculinity now and
get back to the point.
' Last week I decided
to bake some cookies
_ and a big cake. Where
, should I go for all my
ingredients? Now, I am
: certainly a big Wal-Mart fan. Some days I make mul-
tiple trips. One night I woke up at 3 a.m. and decided
‘that one pillow just wasn’t cutting the mustard, so I
(dashed on over to visit my yellow-faced smiley
friends and purchased a second pillow for my pretty
1 little head.
But when it comes to making groceries, nothing stimu-
lates my culinary imagination like a good old fashion
' grocery store like Harris Teeter, Kroger or Food Lion. The
,' Wal-Mart atmosphere simply cannot replicate the epicu-
rean aura ofthese places. A store that sells fishing rods,
) a-Charlie’s—Angel-sponsored clothing for women, and small
rodents might carry the same tasty Toll House‘? morsels
that I want in my brownies that I would by at Harris Teeter;
, but my qualm is psychological. '
The two most important places for innovative food
: creations (at least in my case) are the kitchen andithe
, grocery store. A certain warmth and domesticity guide
my spirits, juices, spices and extracts of all sorts when
; I enter a traditional grocery store. A type of outer-body
experience takes hold and cosmically guides me to the
products destined for my dishes. In a well-designed,
’ comfortable store, the experience can truly be spiritual,
as well as therapeutic. Something can certainly be said
, for a smiley-faced sticker, but it doesn’t solve all.
Many people worry about the impact of Superstores
such as Wal-Mart upon other retail stores. Wal-Mart

   

' .;*5»~~...,()ff His Rocker
7;,,,..3§ Stephen Pesoe '01

we

Upperclass elections should
follow freshman example

The freshman class may actually
have something to teach the rest of us
when it comes to student government.

When I conducted my poll on stu-
dent government last semester, the

Without going into an unnecessar-
ily lengthy argument, I propose that
we amend the constitution to allow for
Fall Term elections for all classes. (This
should only apply to the class offic-

  Over the Hill

 
 

 

definitely impacts other stores; but people are quirky
enough (not as quirky as I am, perhaps, but quirky none-
theless) to go somewhere for the simple reason that
they like the way it smells. I’m not ashamed to admit
that smell makes me go certain places. In fact, I had a

' friend all through grammar school whose house smelled
really nice. My friends and I used ﬂatery and told him

-that he had the best toys so that he would invite us to

’his house. Shallow? Perhaps, but my nose wouldn’t
have had it any other way.

ﬁrst-year students collectively outper-
formed the upper classes in their abil-
ity to recall the names of their student
leaders. I credit this to the fact that
their elections necessarily occur in the
fall term,‘and I consider this to be of
great benefit to the class..When stu-
dents know the names of their oﬁicials,
it stands to reason that the same offi-
cials will be more accessible and re-

sponsive to their classmates’ con-
cerns.

If you are looking for any proof of
this, then I suppose you need look no
further than the Freshman Leadership
Councils. While different class presi-
dents have tried to hold their class
councils together over the years, it al-
ways seems to be the freshmen who
are the most active.

ers, however, since the Executive Com-
mittee plays such an important role
during Freshman Orientation.) By
electing the class officers in the Fall,
and incorporating them into the Stu-
dent Congress I proposed last week, I
believe that we will find ourselves with
a government that will be much more
energetic and familiar to the average
student than that which we have now.

T0 THEEDIT 

Alumnus~urges,:the, return of I
the W&L ’Gentlemari .»  ,.

Dear Editor,

be, in some circles, a high honor. The worst part of it
is that even W&L has become part of the problem.,_,

Ring-tum Phi vividly exempliﬁes W&L‘s alcoholic pro-‘
pensities and other letters in your ﬁne publication have
referred to the problem. As I read them I noticed the
total omission of a trait about which W&L men have
always been proud. -I

It's a trait that was once a powerful influence on
W&L men. It was nothing more than the rather con-
suming belief that they were, not just Gentlemen, but
W&L Gentlemen, just as Robert E. Lee and George
Washington were Gentlemen.

In the ’30s W&L students liked alcohol just as
they do in the ’90s. They were so proud of being

with their drinking. With rare exceptions, they re-
fused to get out of hand.

Binge drinking was almost unheard of. A W&L
Gentlemen made it a point to avoid the obstreper-
ous reputation the University of Virginia had at
that time.

   
    
 
    

g In recent years I've been puzzled by the reports ,
of seeming out-of-control alcohol consumption in.“
colleges all over America. Binge drinking seems to 1'

Lawrence A.G. Johnson's ('55) recent letter to 7725 :5

W&L Gentlemen that they strived to go only so far.

' I  wasla  Chi,H'ouse

indulged. We weregproudi o'f_be'_-.

 

its men to again take up the standards of a Gentleman and
I, all the characteristics for which it stands.
'S'in~=<='r.;e.Iy, _
. John Clark White
Washington and Lee Alumnus

'Aifea guidance counselors thank

, numerous  big buddies

DearEditor, ,

V The school guidance counselors from Rockbridge
County and Lexington City Schools would like to thank
the seventy-seven students from Washington & Lee Uni-
versity who volunteered to be "Big Buddies" to our stu-
dents.

These special friends meet once a week all year with a
yound child who needs special attention. The college stu-
dents take our kids to places and activities they might
otherwise miss. This is the largest group of volunteers we
have ever had.

 
 

JA?»‘*‘£~. G. LF.-‘(BURN LIBRARY
T"a“'_‘ Y°“’ vmei ‘crow 3. LEE L3N!VEFlS!TY
Margie Page LL:/:.l\lGTCll\'. VA 24450
Central Elementary

IA}.

'h'e¥tiiiie and.I.rarely;h'ad trouble vi,/‘itlithosle »

-I ‘noted your letter of parking frustration in the 'cu'r-.1; ‘
L I rent Phi. The parking garage is indeed coming. We are \
working with the architect/contractor who will be build- .

I I ':"‘So the  ofniy is to suggest that W&L‘s lead-»
. ers return to an age-old strength of W&L by encouraging

   

ing the garage, and current plans call for construction
to start-early inMay; the garage is scheduled for comple-
tion and our use at the start of the winter term (Janu-
ary), 2000. Unfortunately, during the construction pe-
riod, you are likely to find parking conditions even more
intolerable than you do now. An interim plan is bring
developed that should bring some relief and ﬂexibility,
but it will require much cooperation, tolerance, and pa-
tience on the part of all University drivers. '

Your letter mentions parking near the Delt House,
now in use as a Panhellenic center. Are you one of the
young women living at this address?

If so, you may not be aware of an arrangement the
University made with the Chi Psi fratemity, whereby
residents of the Delt house can park their vehicles in
the spaces behind the Chi Psi lodge, just a half-block
away from the Delt House.

I have copied some appropriate folks with this mes-
sage. If the arrangement for using Chi Psi spaces is no
longer valid, perhaps they might suggest a viable alter-
native.

Good luck in your quest for the PPUP (pronounced
Pee—Pee-You-Pee). That's short for the Parking Place of
Ultimate Proximity, the one goal that all Americans
(those with wheels) pursue but relatively few achieve.

Sincerely,
Frank Parsons
Coordinator, Facilities Planning

_ j  Viv / g I , , _ _\  p  2 g  A, »‘ Sports Editor
. _Faci'1.ities‘planner,» Frank Pa;rsc75i'1";s, L
_resporids'to parking (complaint  

Elhi: ‘ﬁling-tum iﬂlii

Tarah Grant
Hollister Hovey
Polly Doig

John Stewart
Ginger Phillips
Erica Prosscr
Stephanie Bianco
Stephen Pesce
Frances Groberg
Kevin McManemin
Sarah Meldrum
Meredith Mlynar
Emily Barnes
Scott Cameron
Cliff Woolley
Leo Brown

Executive Editors
News Editors
W&Life Editors
Opinions Editors
Last Word Editor
Copy Editors
Photo Editors

Production Assistant
Layout Assistant

Jason Williams
Matt Lorber
Leo Brown

Business Manager
Advertising Directors
C irculalion Director

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editors, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “Talkback" do not
reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wIu.edu
https//wIu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

1 0 1000
- ‘;.kJxJ

,}_; 1.1 v ‘

 

&

I

 

JANUARY 18, 1999

By Ginger Phillips

F EA TURES EDITOR

Y2K. The name is short but it represents a Pandora’s
box of potential problems. Y2K, or the millennium bug, is a
problem that could affect almost every aspect of our in-

creasingly technology-reliant society. What will happen‘

at the stroke of midnight on Jan. 1, 2000? Well, here’s how
the story goes, at least for some people:

It takes you four hours to get to work because none of
the traffic lights are working for some strange reason.
When you ﬁnally arrive at your oﬂice building, you ﬁnd
yourself stuck in an elevator for the entire workday.

After you escape the metal conﬁnes of the elevator you
decide to run some errands but ﬁnd that none of your
credit cards work and that all the money in your bank
account has suddenly disappeared. Now how will you
pay for that $100,000 phone bill that you receive in the
mail?

It ’s been a bad day so you go home, on the way passing
by ﬁfty convicts from the state penitentiary, where the cell
doors simply won ’t shut. Upon entering your house you
realize that you not only have no electricity or wa-
ter, but that you'll have to live of of the few food
items left in your pantry since grocery stores
aren ’t receiving deliveries anymore.

This is, perhaps, the exaggerated ver-
sion of the results of the Y2K computer
bug. Y2K itself stands for the year 2000,
the year in which many computers may
face the serious challenge of not be-
ing able to read the dates for the new
millenium. A few Americans are ac-
tually stockpiling food and fire-
wood in preparation of Y2K prob-
lems.

“I feel there is entirely too
much hype concerning the Y2K
issue. However, I think everyone
needs to be aware that there will
be some problems concerning
Y2K,” Bill Todd, Washington and
Lee University’s Y2K Coordinator,
said. “Everyone can be affected. It
makes no difference if you have a
computer or not — you can‘ be af-
fected if there are problems. Everyone a
should be educated concerning the Y2K
issue.”

So what exactly is theproblem? During
the early phases of computer_ programming
computer memory was expensive and scarce. H
By, conserving just two bytes‘ perireﬁcordi of’:
memory, organizations were able to save millions of
dollars. Programmers also viewed the coming of 2000 as
such a distant event that they ﬁgured that their program-
ming would be obsolete anyway be the time the date system
started to wreak havoc. '

Therefore, dates were recorded in two digits, for ex-
ample 65 for the year 1965. This poses a serious problem
for the upcoming millenium because computers will read
00 as the year 1900. Because so much of our daily life is
rooted in such technology, numerous social and political
problems could result from these date malﬁinctions.

Fortunately, most W&L students seem to be taking the
news without too much apprehension.

“There isn’t too much to worry about with Y2K. Your
computer is not going to blow up and there won’t be

Y2K bug: Are computers readyfor. new millennium?  

any major catastrophies,” freshman Ali Soydan said.
“Banks and other institutions with big systems are
aware of the problem and are solving it. This issue has
been over — exaggerated in many ways.”

In fact, many of the problems associated with the
millenium bug have already been detected. A Centenarian

from Minnesota recently received an invitation to attend‘

kindergarten due to age discrepancies attributed to Y2K
errors. Credit cards with expiration dates in 2000 have al-
ready caused some computerized cash.registersto crash
and many corporations have recorded serious errors in
long-terrn order processing for the birnillenium.

But how can two little numbers cause so much trouble?
The answer is relatively simple: the expansion of the date
to accommodate four-digit years can change the location
of all subsequent data in a system, meaning that every
program that retrieves that information must be altered to
ﬁnd these new locations. These revisions can then
lead to new
glitches,

or
bugs. A popu-
lar process to fix the

Y2K problem, called windowing, has been devel-

oped to avoid the problems of date expansion.

Although methods to ﬁx the problem do exist, it is virtu-
ally impossible to ﬁx the problem in its entirety. To replace
the innumerable amount of computers and programs al-
ready in use would be far too costly, so many corporations
are attempting to mend their equipment. With such a great

  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  

task and an immovable deadline, there are sure to be some
problems after all the New Year’s parties stop in 2000. For-
tunately, most of these problems should be pretty minor
ones.

“I think that a lot of areas may be affected by routines
that haven’t been ‘ﬁxed’ by Jan. 1, 2000, but most inci-
dents will be irritating or amusing more than serious,” John
Stuckey, director of University Computing, said. “Aware-
ness of the potential problems will be so widespread that
nearly everyone will be watching for irregularities and ready
to deal with them.”

And the University is ready to deal with those problems.

“President Elrod has appointed a Y2K Steering Com-
mittee of senior executives and a Y2K Task Force of admin-
istrators responsible for all areas of University activity,”
Stuckey said. “We’ve been working on Y2K issues for
about four years here in University Computing, and we
published our overall institutional plan about a year ago.”

For the past several months, University Computing

has been preparing for the affect of Y2K on personal
computers on campus. It has tested the readiness
of “pilot” ofﬁces and is in the process of evalu-

ulty and staff.
“The Y2K problem has already af-
fected us by requiring «much of
our time and attention now,”
Dirk van Assendelft, Stu-
dent Computing Coordi-
‘ nator, said. “We are
making sure hard-
ware and software is
Y2K compliant,
and we will be
testing all of our

equipment.”

A 1th 0 u g h
minor problems
with the net-

work are ex-
pected, Todd
says that the
U n iv e r s i t y
should be in
full operation
when classes
resume after the
holiday break on‘
Jan. 3,2000. Even
if W&L is prepared
for Y2K, however, the
ill-prepared also have
the ability to affect the
school.
“We will only be as strong
as our weakest link. If we have
everything on campus ready for
January 1, 2000 and any of our links to
the outside world or our vendors are not
ready we could be impacted,” Todd said. “So,
while we make every effort to be ready, we could expe-
rience problems that for the most part, are out of our con-
trol. We are in the process of contacting our off campus
links and vendors to determine their readiness.” _
University Computing, however, is only responsible for
the approximately 1200 computers owned by the University.
It is the responsibility of the students and faculty to ensure
that their personal computers are Year 2000 compliant.

ating software for the use of students, fac- 4

PAGE 3

_.t

 

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor’

“I’m sick to death of Y2K! It’s just not a big
deal,” senior Nathan Hagar‘ said. “I don’t think
we’re that reliant on technology that we’ll all die
if something goes wrong with our computers.”

“Everything should be OK because most companies
already have the problem solved,” freshman Daniel Comer
said. “However, I don’t think that most people know that
there is some individual responsibility as well.”

“Computer owners should contact their computer ven-
dor to ﬁnd out whether their system is Y2K compliant. If it
isn’t, they should follow the vendor’s recommendations
for upgrade and replacement of components,” Ruth Floyd,
head of Academic Computing, said.

Most, but certainly not all, computers sold within the
past two to three years are able to recognize the new date,
but many older ones will not be so lucky. It is also neces-
sary to check out your computer’s desktop for non-com-
pliant applications. Depending on the volume of applica-
tions stored on your desktop, you could face some seri-
ous problems.

For software programs such as the commonly used
Microsoft WordTM and Corel Word PerfectTM, visit http://
microsoft.com/year2000/ and www.corel.com for compli-
ance information. Most large computer companies, such as
Gateway2000 (www.gateway.com) also have web sites that
list important information about Y2K solutions.

The United States Government has also set up a toll-free
hotline with pre—recorded information about Y2K solutions.
This 24-hour—a-day service is available by calling l-888-USA-
4-Y2K.

University Computing is also developing a web site
that will contain helpful information for personal computer
owners and links to software that can be used to verify the

“hardware and softwareon personally owned computers.

I “We will make sure the fa‘c'ulty,istudents and staff of
personally owned computers will have tools necessary to
help them determine their needs,” Todd said..

So instead of storing dehydrated food and warm
clothing for the much exaggerated, upcoming disaster,
take the proper action to ensure that your personal com-
puters are ready for the new millenium. If so, everyone
may be able to enjoy a tall glass of champagne on Dec.
31, 1999, without having to fear any major Y2K calami-
ties the next morning.

Just in case, the University Y2K Task Force won’t be
far away.

Stuckey reassured students, “We plan to have a crew
on duty, checking systems and watching for problems as
the clock chimes in the New Year — probably the least
boisterous New Year’s Eve party you can ﬁnd.”

Consult the Magic 8-Ball: predictions for the future

By Elianna Marziani
STAFF WRITER

2000. Is it just another number, another new 4-digit sequence to remember to
put on the dates on checks next year, or is it more?

As 1999 kicks off, people naturally begin to look forward and make plans for

. next year, the beginning of the third millennium and the twenty-ﬁrst century.
What changes will this new year hold? Will the only effect be that 20th Century
Fox® will need to change its logo, or will the effects be more widespread?
Members of the Washington and Lee University community had many and
varied ideas about what the tum-of-the-millennium will bring.

First of all, many people throughout the country are worried about the Y2K
problem (see related article, this page). Regardless of their level of knowledge
about it, though, the great majority of those interviewed had very similar an-
swers when asked if they would ﬂy on New Year’s Day 2000 if they had.an
appointment to keep.

“Probably not, just to be superstitious,” said freshman Chris Kieber. “I bet
they’ll have really low fares, though.” '

Freshman Mike Malinzak said, “I wouldn’t ﬂy New Year’s Day, just in case,
because I really don’t want to fall!”

Politics professor Ken Ruscio agreed. “I would not be willing to be on a
plane on January 1st... I’d just as soon let others find out about the problem
than me,” he said. a

Onlyjunior Lucas Penix bravely said, “Sure, I’ll ﬂy that day.” We’ ll just have
to see if he really does.

Aside from the possible airline crisis, the new millennium offers the possi-
bilities for change in all sorts of aspects of life: attitudes, technology,.culture,
you name it. W&L students and faculty had very different views on what sort
of changes the new millennium might bring.

After sketching out the possibility of several apocalyptic groups bombing
each other and killing themselves and the rest of the world (which would still be
in a drunken stupor) on New Year’s Day and thus causing the end of the world
in the year 2000, Kieber grew more serious and offered the idea that the change
of millennium “might be a good chance to put things in perspective.”

He doubts that any major changes in political thought or technological
advancements will occur overnight, however. He said that, while 10 years ago
he thought the year 2000 would be really cool, full of men walking around in
polyesterjumpsuits and living the classic sci-ﬁ life, that scenario is most likely
not going to happen within the next year.

Freshman Ivan Gonzales agreed, not willing to believe that a sci-ﬁ, utopian
world is likely to come about soon.

“Now that we are really near, I see all the scientiﬁc developments coming,

but not in a boom or a glimpse,” he said. “I think people are overly-excited
about it . . . it’s a very superﬁcial thing.” He was open to the idea, however, that
eventually there could be a possibility for “new ideas, new conceptions of
things as we challenge ourselves, question ourselves.”

Ruscio agreed. “It is interesting that we put these artiﬁcial bench-marks on
a year . . . in natural history, this is an insigniﬁcant second,” he said. The
change of millennium, he said, “will be more of a curiosity, a sort of light-
hearted thing, than a serious discussion of where we’ve been and where we’re
going.” I

He believes that there will be some major changes in environment and medi-
cine out of necessity in the near future, testing whether we have enough strength
as a world and society to deal with the complicated social and ethical questions
new problems and solutions will create.

Quite the oracle, Malinzak also saw some changes occurring in the next
century and millennium: “I’ll be dead.” More seriously, he expressed a view-
point similar to Ruscio’s, that the year 2000 “is a year like any other, vaguely
symbolic, but it doesn’t really mean anything.” '

He said, “[The change of a millennium] has happened before, and all we did
then was say, ‘Hey, let’s'kill some Mus1ims.”’ He doesn’t see this millennium as
bringing any great changes in humanity such as those presented in Edward
Bellamy’s utopian novel Looking Backward: 2000-1887. Rather, he said,
“We’ll all sit around and laugh at videos of what we-thought the world
would be like.”

Penix said that he has no idea about what kinds of changes will be made over
the course of the new century or millennium, but he believes that technology
will grow and “dehumanize the workforce even more,” resulting in problems for
those who rely on manufacturing jobs, but also perhaps resulting in improve-
ments of society as a whole.

He believes that there is a possibility that “societies, various ones, will try to
progress more at the beginning of the new millennium.” He does not foresee
any major, rapid changes occurring in the near future. -

While looking ahead at possible social and political changes and devel-
opments is interesting, many people are also concerned with something
more close at hand: the celebrations, festivities and parties associated
with the new year.

Freshman Valerie Bruneau said, “New Year’s Eve is always a lot of hype, so
hopefully this year it will live up to its hype.”

Penix thinks it will. He said, “People are going to be spending .too much
money for a party they could have any time of the year . . . I think people are
kind of crazy to be booking hotels two, three years in advance.”

Ruscio said, “Surely some [celebrations] will be bigger,” with “extra features
and a lot of clever marketing.” As for his own plans, however, he does not

foresee that his New Year’s 2000 celebration will be much different than any
other he has had. 3

Malinzak agrees that celebrations will be “like they were this year, maybe
crazier. Everyonewill think they’re all original because they’re playing Prince’s
1999.”

Kieber thinks that there will be one major feature of the coming New Year’s
Eve and Day: “Alcohol poisoning will be rampant.”

Gonzales agreed that partying will be somewhat excessive, but opinions were
summed up by Reeves, who said, “We’re gonna party like it’s 1999!” (For a report
on the biggest bashes in store this Dec. 31, see related story, page four.)

The new millennium will deﬁnitely bring some major changes, though not as
rapidly as certain futuristic sci-ﬁ shows might have suggested. People are

-preparing themselves now for these changes, working on building that infa-

mous Bridge to the 21st Century that was so often referred to in the 1996

presidential debates.
As for what lies beyond the Bridge . . . well, that’s anybody’s guess.

 

 

PAGE 4

  W31

I

@112 iﬁittg-Gum iﬂlii

IFE

3

JANUARY 18, 1999 in

By Erica Prosser
FEATURES EDITOR

Only 347 days to go.
Until what? Until the new millennium, of course!
Until the parties begin, the computers crash and the

 end of the world comes (or doesn’t come, depending on

your religious preference). And although most experts agree

that the millennium actually begins on Jan. 1, 2001, the real

fun (and trouble) to be had will be waiting at the stroke of
midnight on Dec. 31, 1999.
It staggers the mind: only 347 days left until the

1 end ofa thousand—year countdown. In the last 1,000
.j years, the world has seen mankind grow by leaps

and bounds in every area of thought, technology
and imagination. V ‘

This New Year’s qualiﬁes as a Big Deal, so what are you
(and the rest of mankind) doing to prepare for and cel-

F ii ebrate the event?

Times Square in New York City, traditionally the head-
quarters of First Night every year, will be updating the
festivities for the new millennium:-event planners will be
unveiling a new ball that will drop to usher in the century.
Don’t live in New York? Don’t despair.

Most major cities will be having bashes of their

_;- pl: own, and all over the world, authorities are planning
 celebrations that are supposedly the biggest parties
‘ in the history of time. Huge committees, corporate

sponsors and planning groups have had their heads
together for years in the process of organizing these

 events. ‘

In the United States, the Billennium® is touted as

the “official celebration ofthe year 2000,” and it
means business. The event is a multi-year
celebration of the best entertainment, cul-

ture and education from the past,
present and future, and it all cul-
minates with the 2000th Birth-
day Party for the World” on
New Millennium’s Eve“.

We kid you not; all of these
terms are trademarked and care-
fully protected. Sound compli-
cated (and commercial)? We’re just
getting started.

In California, Party 2000® is a
ﬁve-day blowout that claims to be
“the largest event under construc-
tion in the entire World.” It will fea-
ture the largest concert and party ever held on
the planet; planners expect a turnout of two '
and a half million people on the 5,000 acres set
aside for the event. Event planners also claim
that the world’s largest barbecue, carnival, ﬁreworksd i s —
play and sound system will make the whole thing even
more amazing.

This party is not without a price: the cost to attend
is $445 per person until Jan. 30, $600 per person from
Jan. 30 until March, $700 per person from March until
July and $850 per person thereafter. But wait, the world-
wide bash doesn’t end there. The joy continues in other
countries.

England is preparing with, among other things, a party
called Greenwich 2000. The British claim that the millen-

U

  
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
 

nium ofﬁcially begins in this Prime Meridian spot, so they
are building the Millennium Dome, a huge exhibition hall,
for the occasion.
In Paris, ofﬁcials are preparing for the
expected influx of visitors with a
bigger airport,
more foot-
bridges

0

across
the Seine,
faster trains, more
landscaping and
facelifts for many of the
monuments and muse-
ums. A

The Roman Catholic
Church will base its spiritual mil-
lennium activity in Vatican City,
scheduling pilgrimages to the area all
through the year in order to spread out the
expected crowds. .

In Egypt, authorities plan to place a gold-encased capstone

on the Great Pyramid to make it whole again for the night of

Dec. 31, 1999. »
Other worldwide activities that will last all year long

‘ emperor’s rule, will do little to mark the Western

Tonight we’re gonna party like it’s . . .well, 1999 -

include cruises, horse races, festivals, vigils, dinners and
nearly all other imaginable means of celebration. Hotel
rooms and champagne are expected to be scarce, causing 7‘
many people to book their parties already.

Not everyone is preparing with such gusto. Rus-
sia and China have no major events planned yet,
and Japan, which measures time by the length of an

millennium (the date in Japan will be Hisei 12,

the 12th year of Akihito’s reign).
Israeli religious authorities have already warned against
much celebrating of the New Year because the date falls on ,,
a Friday night, the Jewish sabbath. But most countries and
peoples will be partying this New Year’s Eve like there’s‘

no tomorrow. ‘

Despite the proliferation of parties and
celebrations across the globe, one i
question still lingers: where will
the ﬁrst millennium sunrise
be?

Pitt Island, a member ‘
of New Zealand’s remote
Chatham Islands, claims
the honor of hosting that

first light, predicting it at
4:04 a.m. on Jan. 1,2000 3-
(11:04 a.m. EST, Dec. 31,
1999). .
You could go all the way there to
see the dawn, but even if you don’t, odds are that the sun *
will rise wherever you are, bringing with it a new millen-
nium and a future full of possibilities.

J final world revolution against

United States.

' been held responsible for at least

i» installations, and Asahara and his

By Erica Prosser
FEA TURES EDITOR

For as long as anyone can remember, handfuls of religious cults and
extremists have announced that the world will end soon, possibly on Jan.
1, 2000. Despite the fact that experts now believe that our calendar is off
and we’re already past the actual 2,000-year anniversary of the birth of
Christ, these groups declare that the Apocalypse is nigh and we’re all in
big trouble.

Who are these authorities on speculation? What groups are behind this
rumor of Armageddon? Here’s a short exploration of some of the cults that

A ’ : have been or are currently preparing for the Second Coming while the rest of us
’ i; plan our parties. .

Aum Shinri Kyo: This Japanese cult, which combines some elements of

\ Buddhism and Christianity, was founded by Shoko Asahara. Followers see him

as Christ. Asahara took the bibli-
cal Book of Revelation and some
of the writings of Nostradamus
and predicted major worldwide di-
sasters to occur in these last years
of the millennium. He also declared
that the group must ﬁght in the

6 C
...at least 46 major
predicted dates for
Armageddon have
been made and ,
debunked, so if
nothing happens on
Jan. 1, 2000, it
wouldn’t be the
first time.

Japan’s enemies, including the

To prepare for this planned Ar-
mageddon, the group stockpiled
chemical weapons. This cult has

nine biological attacks on Japanese

members are blamed for a sarin gas 9 9

attack that killed 11 people and in-

jured more than 5,000 in a Tokyo subway station.
Meanwhile, Asahara’s daughter, Rika Matsumoto, has taken over the cult;

members think she has great abilities because she was born after her father’s

‘ _ enlightenment.

Branch Davidians: David Koresh led this group that met with tragedy in

' Waco, Texas, in the spring of 1993. The group expects the imminent return of

Jesus Christ to earth, and Koresh renamed their compound “Ranch Apoca-

‘_ lypse” because of his belief that the battle of Armageddon would begin on the
compound. Members live a disciplined and communal life, stockpiling arms for

the ﬁnal battle.

In 1993, ofﬁcials tried to arrest Koresh on ﬁrearms violations, but they de-
cided to go about it by assaulting the compound directly, leading to a long
siege. Miscommunication between the ofﬁcials and Koresh, combined with
“expert” opinion that mass suicide or slaughter was unlikely, led the govern-
ment to attack with tear gas and force their way into the buildings. Fires sprung
up, and when the ﬁghting and ﬁres were over, roughly 75 people (including
Koresh) were dead.

The group is still in existence, split into anti-Koresh and pro-Koresh fac-
tions. The pro-Koresh side believes that

 

T Write'forthegPhi..:.~~’."  
Write for the  . Q’  v  i

   

A  know you want 

Cornet to story board ati:_7:3_0i€' A
. .Tué-ﬂay inighfsin r°9m’2;°.8 
off th¢UniYlersiFY C¢*“¢r-*i“- 

|_v.eid_'  .

    

I FLORIDA
SPRING BREAK

FROM $159 PER WEEl(*

HUGE BEACH mom HOTTUABV I “
LAZY mvsv. RIDE - SUITES upro ‘IOPERSONS .
SAILBOATS - TlKl BEACH BAR - JET SKIS - PARASAILS

“HOME OF THE WORLD'S LONGEST KEG PARTY"
FREE DRAI-T BEER ALL WEEK LONG-(ALL FOR INFO!
1-800-488-8828

www.szmdpiperbeacomcom (‘rates per person)

l7«10?ll{ONl BE/\Cl'l ROAD - PANAANA CITY BEACH.

the process of the Apocalypse is almost complete, and that the ﬁve months of
torment will begin on orabout Aug. 6, 1999.

Heaven’s Gate: You remember this group from March of 1997, when 39 people
put on black Nike shoes and purple shrouds and committed suicide so that
they could reach the mother ship that was waiting behind the Hale-Bopp comet.
The group, founded by Marshall Applewhite (“Do”), is a combination of Chris-
tian belief and UFO theory.

According to the members, Do came to earth 2,000 years ago and moved

into the body of Jesus Christ, and his power was how all the biblical phenom- A

ena happened. Current members believe that, if the group commits suicide
together, their “container” bodies will be left behind, and the aliens will be
able to graft their spirits onto “better than human” forms.

When Hale-Bopp got close to - I —
Earth and Easter was also occur-

 Apocalypse soon: some cults think end of world is nigh ~‘

so we have someplace happy to go when the asteroid hits.

The word “extreme” does not do this group justice, but their wealth and ii
variety of information is nice.

These are just some of the more organized and well-known groups that
preach an imminent end of the world as we know it. Over the course of recorded
history, at least 46 major predicted dates for Armageddon have been made and
debunked, so if nothing happens on Jan. 1, 2000 (or sometime beforehand), i‘
it wouldn’t be the first time. V

Still, these groups are vocal and provide us with some fascinating food
for thought about the possibilities of the future.

I’ll probably head to Confession sometime before Dec. 31, 2000 though, i
just in case. .

‘1l'l .

ring, 39 group members killed them-
selves in an effort to reach the
spaceship. The members left be-
hind are busily maintaining the
group’s multimedia materials and
waiting for their turn to ascend.

First Internet Church of Phila-
delphia: This extensive website (at
www.Escape666.com) covers pre-
dictions, theories and declarations
of the end of the world. The site
explores everything from the Bible
to Nostradamus, finding “evi-
dence” of Armageddon in every
location. A

According to one of the more
prominent predictions on the site,
an asteroidwill hit the earth in July
of this year, causing the end of all
life. Apparently, Jan. 1, 2000 isn’t
soon enough for the coming of our
just desserts.

Asteroids aside, the makers of
the site (of whom only “Pastor
Harry,” leader Harry Walther, has a
name), predict ﬂoods, aliens and a
worldwide “disappearance” of en-
tire groups of people for no appar-
ent reason. Sex and violence will
reign, although that will probably
stop when the asteroid kills every-
thing on the planet. .

The leaders of this group say
that all ancient prophesies con-
verge on the coming millennium,
so the end is at hand and we all
need to repent and be forgiven _

Lee Signed CDV

FL 32413

Clipped signature with closing w/ CDV
Document signed "R. E. Lee, Lt. Engrs"
Letter Signed, Lexington, VA, 1870

Washington College Diploma, 1867

Great Framing, Great Service, Great History

Original Frameworks »

1 North Main St. Lexington, 464-6464 
M-F 10-6, Sat 9-4, New Manager

ROBERT E. LEE SIGNATURES
FOR SALE

 

$3000 A
$4000
$6500
$5500 '
AND

$4500

1
Other Lee's: Fitzhugh, G.\X/.C., "Rooney" & Lee's Father—In—Law
' 11
Also Available: Lincoln, Grant, Mosby, Longstreet, Ashby,
Beauregard, Early, A.P. Hill, Imoben, etc., etc.
it

 

.Generals suffer narrow loss at
..hands of Randolph-Macon

I

X

 

JANUARY 18, 1999

S‘i?d‘RTs

PAGE 5

Junior guard
Jessica
Morton

protects the
ball from an
opponent
during the
game against
Hollins on
Thursday.
The Generals
cruised to an
A easy victory,
defeating the
Roanoke
team by a
score of
76-59.

  

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

By Tod Williams

STA FF WRITER

Just as soon as the Generals be-
gan their ﬁrst streak of the year that
didn’t involve losses, the Yellow Jack-
ets of Randolph-Macon put an end
to the two-win streak on Saturday.
After impressive 76_-59 and 78-62 wins
over Hollins and Lynchburg, respec-
tively, Washington and Lee was
outscored 52-29 in its 90-62 loss to
Randolph-Macon.

The Generals used a 12-2 run to
pull within three points of the Jack-
ets, but went into the locker room
down by ﬁve at halftime, 38-33.

Randolph-Macon came out hot in the
second half, shooting 62% in the half.
The Beightol sisters of RMC combined
for 36 points in the 28-point win.

For the Generals, junior Jessica
Morton came off the bench to lead the
team in scoring with 16 points, includ-
ing her 6-6 free throw performance.
Freshman Alison Kudlacik posted 13
points for W&L. The real story on the
week was freshman center Jessica
Mentz, who posted 14 points and eight
boards in the loss, and equally respect-
able numbers in the two wins.

In the Generals 76-59 win over
Hollins, Mentz posted her third double-
double of the year with 17 points and

13 rebounds. Against Lynchburg, she
chipped in 13 points and six rebounds.
Mentz said the team’s upperclassmen
have been crucial to her first season.
“[The upperclassmen] never look
down on any ofthe freshmen. We're
members of the team.”

Mentz said the only thing holding
the team back is its lack of a “ﬁnal
burst.” “We've only been able to play
20 minutes,” she said of the team’s
inability to close out games with a
strong ﬁnish.

The Generals outscored Hollins 39-1 1
on Thursday injust under 12 minutes in
the second half to cruise to the 17-point
win. Hollins lead 32-30 at me break and

iWomen’s basketball two for three in VA

by as much as six later in the second half,
but W&L pulled out the victory.

Senior Chrissy Burghardt led W&L
in both scoring and rebounding, 18
and 14, respectively, en route to her
ﬁfth double-double this season. Jun-
ior Ansley Miller also dropped in 16
for the Generals. Sophomore guard
Rosee Hopkins led all scorers with 23.

In the Generals’ 78-62 win over
Lynchburg, Miller and Burghardt com-
bined for 39 points. W&L led 33-31 at
the half, and never looked back, as the
ladies ended the game on a 16-2 run.

The Generals (4-8, 3-5 ODAC) will
travel to Bridgewater for a 7 p.m. game
on Tuesday.

By Brendan Harrington

SPORTS WRITER

Despite a sizzling second half
shooting performance, the Washing-
ton and Lee men’s basketball team lost
its sixth game in a row on Saturday,
falling to Randolph-Macon 59-54 in
front of 420 fans at the Warner Center.

The Generals (3-10, 2-6 ODAC)
trailed 28-21 at the half, but shot an
amazing 79% from the field in the sec-
ond half to climb back into the game.
In the end, however, the Generals were
unable to overcome 11 second-half
turnovers and came up just a bit short.

Saturday’s loss extended the Gen-
erals’ losing streak against Randolph-
Macon to 24 games. W&L last de-
feated the Yellow Jackets on Feb. 9,
1977, a time when every player cur-
rently on the team except senior cap-
tain Kevin Cobbin was yet to be born.

“We did a greatjob rallying and
battling back, and that’s a credit to
our guys,” W&L head coach Kevin
Moore said following the loss.
“We’re right there, we’re ready to
turn the darn corner, it’s just a mat-
ter of knocking away a few turnovers

and grabbing a couple of extra re-
bounds.”

After the Yellow Jackets (10-3, 5-2
ODAC) went ahead 43-28 on a basket
by senior forward Matt Meehan with
12:58 left in the game, the Generals
went on a 15-0 run and tied the score
at 43-43 on sophomore guard Chad
Braley’s free-throw with 7:34 left to go.
It was the first and only free-throw of
the game for W&L.

“When we were down by 15, we
very easily could have collapsed,
but we didn’t,” Moore said. “We
have talent, we have ability, and we
should be able to play that way for
40 minutes.”

W&L led 54-53 with less than two
minutes remaining when Meehan
nailed a clutch jump-shot in the lane
to give the Yellow-Jackets the lead 55-
54. On the next possession-the Gener-
als turned it over, but Meehan then
missed a jumper on the other end.IheL
Generals claimed the rebound and
called a time-out with 16.2 seconds left
to play. "

Following the time-out the Gener-
als looked to play for the last shot, but
Braley tried to force a lob-pass down

low to junior forward Rich Peterson
and the Yellow Jackets were able to
knock it out-of-bounds off of W&L
guard Will Ballard.

“The play was designed to get
Chad a shot, and if he was covered
his next look was to Rich inside,”
Moore said. “He looked at him too
long, and the defense was able to
get over there —— he probably should
have reversed the ball.”

The Generals then found them-
selves in a rare position: they were
four fouls away from putting
Randolph-Macon in the bonus and
they needed to put the Yellow Jack-
ets on the foul line in order to get the
ball back. As a result, the Generals
were forced to foul someone before
the ball was inbounded so that no time
would run off the clock and Ballard
was whistled for an intentional foul.

Senior forward Brian Pirttima
nailed both of the free throws fro
RMC, and the Generals were forced
to foul again. Meehan hit both of
his free throws to produce the ﬁnal
score of 59-54.

“You can’t play good teams and
have 20 turnovers and expect to win,

it’s just not going to happen,” said
Moore. “We need to start limiting
ourselves to at least fourteen a game.”

The free-throws by Pirttima and
Meehan at the end of the game were
the only time the Yellow Jackets went
to the line all afternoon. The two teams
combined for only 21 personal fouls
and a mere ﬁve free-throws, making for
an extremely swiﬁ game.

The Generals shot a season high
60% from the ﬁeld. Braley led all play-
ers with 20 points (8-13 from the ﬁeld)
and Peterson added 12 for the Gener-
als.

Pirttima and junior guard Mike
LaGuardia each scored 15 for the Yel-
low Jackets while Meehan added 12.
LaGuardia was 5-9 from three-point
land including a clutch NBA-three
down the stretch.

The Generals return. to action
against St.~Mar:y-’-‘s College in Maryland
on Monday night at 7230 before travel 7
ing to Emory and Henry on Wednes-
day night.

“We need to win a game right now,”
Moore said. ‘‘If we lose too many in a
row, the guys are going to start to
doubt themselves.”

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

Sophomore guard Will Ballard catches some air against RMC

Men’s and Women’s swimming can hang with bigger teams

By Steele Cooper

SPORTS WRITER

This weekend, the Washington and Lee men’s and
women’s swim teams combined for three wins at home
against Buffalo State and Catholic University. Friday, the
Generals faced Buffalo State, with the men winning easily
(1 1-74) and the women edging out a close 92-90 win. Satur-
day, the men defeated Catholic (105-96), but the women lost
by a 109-96 margin. The W&L men now have an overall
record of 6-3, and the women have an overall record of 7-3.

Against Buffalo State, senior captain Margaret Hoehl
led the Generals swim team to the close victory with three
wins on the evening. Hoehl placed ﬁrst in the 100 Breast
(1 : 13.55 — meet record), the 200 Free (2:01.21 — meet
record), and the 100 Butterﬂy (1 203.3 5).

Two additional upperclass swimmers taking home
ﬁrst place finishes also paced the women on Friday.
Senior Courtney Tyler won her 2001M race (2:25.80),
and junior Lauren Beckenhauer won the 100 Back
(1 : 105.43 — meet record).

Saturday’s lose to Catholic did not come without sev-
eral victories for W&L. Once again, Hoehl led the pack in
three of her races, this time breaking three meet records in
doing so. Hoehl won the 200 Free (1:59.84 —meet record),
the 200 Fly (2: 16.75 — meet record), and the 500 Free
(5 :2 1 .08 —meet record).

Lauren Beckenhauer earned another ﬁrst place ﬁnish

 

for the weekend, on Saturday. Junior Lezael Haynes and
freshman Laura lngoldsby both won their races as well.
Beckenhauer won the 200 Back with a time of 2:20.58,
Haynes won the 200 IM with a time of 2:24.15, and
lngoldsby won the 1000 free with her time of 1 1:40.36.

The W&L men’s swim team was led by sophomore Colin

Hayes, junior Jared Fribush, and sophomore Mike Miraglia
during its easy victory over Buffalo State on Friday. Hayes
won the 500 Free (5:1 1.99), the 200 Free (1 :51.l9), and the
100 Fly (54.21). Fribush charged to win the 50 Free (22.40)
and the 100 Free (50.95), while Miraglia won the 100 Breast
(1 204.34), and the 200 IM (2205.18).

A member of
the women’s
swim team
backstrokes
to victory
during a
meet. Both
the men’s and
the women’s
teams posted
wins this
weekend, and
many meet
records were
broken in the
process.

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

AWARDS continued from page 1

Earlier this year, Parker was named the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference Player of the Year. First Team All-State
each of the past three seasons and a four-time First Team
All-ODAC honoree, Parker anchored a W&L defense that
allowed only 16 goals in 17 games and only two goals in a
seven-game stretch.

Chase earned First Team All-State honors in 1996 and is
a two-time First Team All-ODAC selection. He leaves the
W&L program as its all-time leading goal scorer (52) and
total point scorer (1 17). He also led the Generals in both
categories this season.

Parker earned First Team All-State and First Team All-
ODAC honors in each of his ﬁrst three seasons for W&L.
He was second on the team in goals (9) and total points
(19). Parker is tied for second in all-time goals at W&L (40)
and tied for third in all-time total points (86).

WoMLN’s Soccrn

Three members of the 1998 ODAC regular season cham-
pion Generals were named to the Virginia Sports Informa-
tion Director's All-State team.

Senior forward and co-captain Karin Treese has been
named all-state ﬁrst team for the second consecutive sea-
son. She ends her career at W&L as the program's all-time
leading scorer in goals (72) and total points (167). In 1998,
she led the ODAC in goals per game (1.21) and total points
per game (2.79). She also led the Generals in game-winning
goals with ﬁve.

Freshman midﬁelder Kate Bidwell was one of only two
freshmen to make the state's first team. She placed third on
the W&L scoring list with nine goals and 21 total points.
Bidwell scored both goals in a 2-1 win at Lynchburg, hand-
ing the Hornets their only regular season conference loss.

Senior back and co-captain Nicole Johnson has been
named to state's ﬁrst team for the ﬁrst time. Last season,
Johnson was named to the state's honorable mention team.
Johnson anchored a defense that allowed only 10 goals in
14 games, including eight shutouts in 1998.

All three players were named to the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference's ﬁrst team. Treese and Johnson were
both named to the south region's third team.

VOLLEYBALL
The ODAC Champion volleyball squad placed two Gen-

erals to the Virginia Sports Infonnation Director's College
Division All-State team.

Freshman middle blocker Lindsay Ruckert was named
to the ﬁrst team and junior outside hitter Nancy Reinhart
was named to the second team. Head Coach Terri Dadio
Campbell was named the Coach of the Year.

Ruckert also earned First Team All-ODAC, ODAC Tour-
nament MVP, and ODAC Rookie ofthe Year honors after
leading W&L in kills (318) and hitting percentage (.344).
Her 77 total blocks tied for the team lead and she was sec-
ond on the team in digs (307).

Reinhart, a First Team All-State selection last season,
earned Second Team All—ODAC honors this season after
breaking the school record for single-season digs (402) and
career digs (1,082).

Dadio Campbell earned her second State Coach of the
Year honor, having earned Co-Coach of the Year laurels dur-
ing the 1 995 season. Dadio Campbell led the Generals toa 26-
2 season, 10-0 in the ODAC. Her team set a new scl.oo]
record for winning percentage (.928) and tied the school's
longest winning streak by emerging victorious in her ﬁnal 16
matches. Her career record at W&L stands at 137-41 (.770).

Congratulations to all ofthe award winners.

Saturday, the Generals upped their record to 6-3 with the
help of three swimmers with two wins each. Fribush, the All-
American from Burtonsville, MD, was once again at the top of
the ﬁeld in his 50 Free iaoe (22.47), and his 100 Free race (50.74).

“Catholic beat us last year, and it was a tough meet two
years ago,” Fribush said, “and it was tough this year, but
everyone has been swimming really well, and it paid off for
us. We may be a smaller team than others, but we can hang
with the big teams.”

Sophomore Rob Little won the 200 Free (1 255.01) and
the 200 Back (2:06.84) to add to the men’s domination at
the Catholic meet. This year’s recruit class made show-
ing with two ﬁrst place ﬁnishes by freshman Rick Black.
Black won the 1000 Free (10:57.65) and the 500 Free
(5: 16.28).

The men will try to improve their record when they host
Johns Hopkins on Jan. 22, and Sewannee on Jan. 23. The
women will be back in action on Jan. 19 when they travel to
Radford to face Radford and Hollins.

— Courtesy of Sports Information

Econolodge

540-463-7371

*Parents’ Discount* V
*Newly Renovated*
*Free HBO with Remote*
*No Smoking Rooms*

*Free Continenal Breakfast*

 

  

INSIDE

issue 45, volume 23

founded 1865

New trailer hark to

Trouble arbrexlvin at

i  I 3 relieve residents of the el’ tishin’ hole,
I Q 9 U In; , nesky “dianity” she’ enufi
‘*9 ‘ ‘ —n9. A-4 —m2. A-6

(Spar/3 / yea/ares ./

Deckhridae County
Hiah wins state clin-

snittina ﬁnal -119. B-2

""9. C‘ I

 

Din farminu: the
wave of the future’!

Opitzion ./ I. IE XI N er 0 N
Dros and cons of |-CW0

the Thirteenth NUMl3l':'|?5:.
Amendment |’|<3|\' 1 - 6
jug. A-S  2 Z 5“

Rockbridge County's third-favorite weekly paper
”/'0/' f/re /ifa/are amongsf 1/: ”

he Daily Lexingtonian

January 18, 1999

price: 35¢

Megatrucasaurus

to squash
localcars

The age-old battle between machine and big-
ger, fire-breathing machine will be played out this
SUNDAY SUNDAY SUNDAY at the Roanoke
Civic Center when Megatruckasaurus rolls into
town.

The Roanoke Civic Center’s Megamonster
Demolition Monster Truck Rally is considered the
highlight of the Monster Trucking season, which
stretches from Monster-Truck—o-rama on April
13th to Monster-Truck-a-thon on February 29th.

The art form of Monster Trucking stretches
back to the days of the ancient Greeks. The Greeks
would sail boats into the Aegean Sea and then run
them over with bigger boats while delighted fans
drank beer and hooted from the shore. Since then
the artform has evolved greatly with revolutions
in locomotion and ﬁrebreathing technology. Like
rodeo, although Monster Trucking is often criti-
cized as being “too cerebral,” it remains a popular
cultural activity in this part of the country.

Not everyone is looking forward to the arrival
of Megatruckasaurus, a Mac truck that transforms
into a four-story tall, ﬁrebreathing monster with
powerful claws for ripping apart cars or unlucky
fans.

Rockbridge County Sheriff Dan Graft said that
his forces are prepared if the dangerous
Megatruckasaurus breaks out of the Roanoke
Civic Center and heads north on 81 to squash cars

 

Megatruckasaurus looms over
his next victim.

in Rockbridge County. “It’s like that movie
about that big ape done stomped up New York.
When will men learn you can’t contain an awe-
some force of nature like Megatruckasaurus?”
Graft said in a press conference held earlier
today.

Residents are advised to keep their pick-
up trucks indoors at all times and call the po-
lice immediately should they see any four-
story tall, firebreathing monsters. “Under no
circumstances should you make eye contact
with Megatruckasaurus,” Graft warned. “He’ll
think you’re challenging him.”

“Please don’t feed the Megatruckasaurus,”
he added.

Lexington fashion show
shows Lexington fashions

They came from Paris and New York. From London and
Madrid. Once a year, the luminaries ofthe fashion world de-
scend upon the normally
sleepy burg of Lexington to
put on a show the entire
world is watching.

Nestled in the heart of
Virginia’s Shenandoah Val-
ley, Lexington is the perfect
place for the annual
“Southern Fashion Show

and BBQ Bake.” Lexing-
ton is the resting place of
Civil War Generals Robert
E. Lee and Stonewall Jack-
son, men remembered
both for their military
prowess and keen fashion
sense.
The “Southem Fashion
Show and BBQ Bake”
never fails to bring

 

Camouflage shirts and
cowboy hats are a

fashion must! Pants out the best from
are °Pti°“al- the world’s top de-
signers.

One of the most talked about looks this year was
the WWF merchandise look. Donna Karan’s stun-
ning Stone Cold Steve Austin t-shirt and dirty old
jeans combo garnered rave reviews, and Giorgio
Armani’s breathtaking Goldberg shirt showed that
he’s still got it. One of the most glamorous pieces
of Amiani’s WWF collection was a 14-year-old Cap-
tain Lou Albino t-shirt with holes under the armpits

 

one gun salute from the audience.
“Camouflage is such a stylish look,” Hilﬁger said. “Whether

on the hunt or just hid-
ing out in the woods
avoiding the police,
camouﬂage looks great
anytime.”

It looks like the “no
shirt” look will once
again be the way for men
to go this summer.
“Walking around in
public with no shirt is
sexy and cheap,” said
designer Issac Mizrahi.

For formal events
such as county fairs and
Family Court Deposi-
tions, the look of choice
remains the classic
Western. Cowboy hats

 

Supermodel Earl Beaman
shows that empty Budweiser
boxes make great hats.

and cowboy boots are a necessary item in

any well-dressed Southerner’s wardrobe.
Even for those who have never even seen a
real horse, let alone left their trailer parks, the
cowboy look is a statement of rugged, un-
washed masculinity.

Popular new designs this year included
cheap hats with the name of a towing or plumb-
ing company on it. Calvin Klein’s Burger King
and Taco Bell uniforms also wowed the crowd.
“These uniforms make a great fashion state-
ment,” Klein said. “They say: look at me, I’m

  

BV named one of top

34,264 small towns

An annual survey conducted by
US. News and World Report named
Buena Vista, Virginia one of the 34,264
most livable small towns in America.
Buena Vistajoins the survey between
Sulfur Gorge, South Dakota and
Midstate Medium Security Correction
Facility, Wyoming.

Buena Vista’s position has made an
incredible leap from last year, when it
ranked second to last on the list at
43,432. BV mayor Duke Dinwiddie cites
recent city-wide improvements like in-
door plumbing and, running water as
major factors in the jump.

“River parasite infections dropped
in half after we stopped drinking out
of the river,” Dinwiddie said.

The economy in Buena Vista has
also radically changed in the past few
years, with primitive bartering replac-
ing their traditional hunter/gatherer
economy.

Education has also improved in re-
cent times. Average SAT scores have
doubled from 1997-1998, allthe way
from I to 2. Buena Vistans still speak a
tongue incomprehensible to the north-
ern ear. Based upon English, their
words are slurred together to give a
sound somewhat resembling a pig re-
lieving itself.

U.S. News and World Report As-
sociate Editor Brian Henderson said
that they examine many factors when
drawing up the annual list. “We look
at factors like economic squalor, mana-
gerial incopetence, lack of cultural ac-
tivities or basic upright walking. Buena
Vista met all these standards. But when
we heard that the city was built on a
flood plain right next to a river — oh,
man!”

Buena Vistans plan to hold a pa-
rade to celebrate, “just as soon as we
get this upright walking down.”

Community Forum
Issue: Shoney’ s breakfast bar

Damn that’s some
good scrapple

by Elroy P. Diggs

Every time I go to Shoney’s break-
fast bar, damned if I don’t eat me a
whole lotta breakfast. Usually in the
mornin’s before I go off to the cement
farm my gal Dotty Sue ﬁxes me up a
box of Captain Crunch with Crunch
Berries, but sometimes when I been
out drinking all night I go to the
Shoney’s breakfast bar and eat.

I likes me the foods they got up in
there. I likes the bacon and the grits,
and the pancakes what come with
syrup. But my favorite part of the whole
dang breakfast bar is the scrapple.

Now, I ain’t got no right clue what
in hell scrapple is. I ain’t no fancy chef
like the ones what work at Mr.
Shoney’s. But I do know this about
scrapple: it sure tastes damn good. If I
could eat scrapple all my life, I ain’t
never go hungry. That’s the God-hon-
est truth, sure enough, or my name
ain’t Elroy P. Diggs.

Yup.

Also, thems ham biscuits is mighty
tasty.

I likes me them

sausages

by Rita Mae Duggs

Them sausages is what makes the
breakfast bar at Shoney’s so good, I
tell you what. I love me some Shoney’s
sausages. When I go buy sausages at
Harris Teeter and cook ‘em when I used
to cook before they done turned my e-
lectricity off cuz my ex-husband didn’t
pay no bills, my sausages ain’t never
tasted like that.

My Lord and Savior Jesus Christ,
if he was alive today instead of two
hundred years ago, I’d take him to
Shoney’s. I truly do love my Lord
Jesus Christ, but I loves me them sau-
sages more. I’d take Jesus to Shoney’s
and share my sausages with Jesus and
I wouldn’t worry none about Jesus
eating all of my sausages because the
breakfast bar is all-you-can-eat which
means Ijust pay once and Jesus can
have all the sausages he wants.

I tell you what, I ain’t gotta wait for
the Apocalypse and the Rapture to
come like it done says in Revelation,
because when I eat Shoney’s sau-
sages, I’m already in Heaven. Amen.

and a bigjelly stain on the front.

Camouﬂage was another common sight on the _
runway this year. Tommy Hilﬁger unleashed his 1999 “kc Stone Cold Steve
camo wardrobe to a standing ovation and a twenty- Austin “Shirts!

Nothing screams “class”

earning minimum wage and I’m loving it!”
The show was declared a rousing success

by all involved, and left no doubt what we’ll

be seeing on the racks of Wal-Mart in 1999.

“country charts

I lie:
15' a r
15

1) Shania Twain: A CD jacket
With Lots of Sultry Pictures of Me
in Various‘ States of Undress. Oh
Yeah, Some Songs Too.
2) Garth Brooks: Ego Trip
— 3) Alan Jackson: Another
Indistiguishable Country Album A
. 4)pThe Dixie Chicks:iHicks Play-
ing Guitar,Licks With Pics   .
5) Bobby Joe Bucky Billy Bob Bo L
Clem Bubba Bob Bob BO Bob I
Kensirigton Bob Johnsonxlunior:
My Pick-up Truck M I .
6) Col. Bill “Big Roy”’Beaumont:
Cousin Mom" . '. I ,
7): Leann Rimes: Peclophilia Is’
Just Another Way to Say I Love ‘
:8) Diamond Rio: Catterwails  the
key of G ,  r A
9) The Dave Matthews Band: We p
Suck Enough to Be On the‘Coun—
. try Charts , , A L ‘
10) Little Texas: Little Talent
11) Billy Ray Cyrus: Live at the
BBC / I
12) Ol’ Toothless Joe and the
Yodelin’ Farmhand Band: My
Lover, My Dog
13) Alabama: Arkansas
14) Spittin’ Jimmy: All Chawed
Out
15) Puff Daddy featuring Patsy
Cline: Country Remix ‘99 (radio
edit)

  

The Daily Lexingtonian
a Grits Media production

Editor-In-Chief: Lum Perkins

News Editor: Nathan Bedford Forrest
VIII

Copy Editor: Our ol’ dog Skip
Business Manager: Cap’m Charlie
Croker

Overseer: Bud P. Wadmore
Spittoon: “Randy”

“The Daily Lexingtonian” was con-
ceived, writtcn and performed by
Kevin “Carpetbagger” McManemin

MY DEGREE aorflmr THE RVIEW.

    

ARMY ROTC GOT ME THE JOB.

Things got pretty competitive for
this job. I’m sure my college degree
and good grades kept me in the
running. But in the end it was the
leadership and management
experience I got through Army

ROTC taught me responsibility self-
discipline and leadership. Those are
things you just can't learn from a
textbook. I don't know where I'd be
right now if I hadn't -enrolled in
ﬁy Army ROTC, but I do know one

    

ROTC that won them over. Army a 8 thing for sure . . .Iwouldn't be here.

Bxaanzxai
ARMY ROTC

THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE

For details, call VMI Army ROTC
at (540) 464-7351.

 

