1

§

1

‘Q

5

¢

I

K

I‘.

V

W

I

‘.1

1

‘X

 

U112 ﬂing-tum {ﬂirt

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITv’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

VOLUME 101, NO. 9

SPJ sponsors

public forum

on disclosure

By Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

The issue ofwhether or not to pub-
lish the names of those convicted in
campus disciplinary hearings went up
for debate in a forum sponsored by
the Society of Professional Journalists
last Thursday.

The recently passed Higher Edu-
cation Amendments suggest that col-
leges make results of disciplinary hear-
ings available to student media, but
leaves the subject of naming those
convicted up to individual schools’
discretion.

Knight Professor of Journalism
Louis Hodges, Dean of Students David
Howison, Student Faculty Hearing
Board Chair Barbara Brown, Student
Judicial Council Chair Greta Richter,
and Executive Committee President
Beth Formidoni all served as members
of the panel.

“We need to recognize that any-
time you have disciplinary hearings
that are essentially held in private and
are kept secret, you have a potentially

dangerous situation on your hands 
secrecy generally allows corrupt
people to reveal their corruption un-
checked,” Hodges said. “Therefore the
bias, in my opinion, ought to be on the
side of openness rather than secrecy.”

“I want to believe that if you do
something, it’s going to be judged in
accordance with the extremity of what-
ever it is that you do,” senior Nadiyah
Howard said. “And I think that if you
publish these things, then the student
body is going to have a better idea of
what’s going on, and be able tojudge
for itself what’s right.”

Hodges called for openness based
on a two—fold argument.

“First, we really need a watchdog
to watch over even our best disciplin-
ary bodies,” Hodges said. “And sec-
ond, to do so, and to publish the re-
sults, to reveal the issues at stake and
the actions taken, would have a major
educational impact on the everybody
in the student body.”

Howison is in favor of letting the

See FORUM, Page 2

LPD limits public
access on weekends

By J ennifer Agiesta

STA FF WRITER

On Oct. 14, 1998, the Lexington po-
lice department joined the new central
dispatch station in Buena Vista. Since
then, no officer has manned Lexington
Headquarters on the weekend, and no
one has access to police reports from
Friday night, Saturday and Sunday un-
til Monday morning. I

Police Chief Bruce Beard seems un-
concerned about the possible effects
on public access to police records. His
main concern is that police will be avail-
able to anyone who needs them, and in
his opinion, this system works better.

With emergency calls directed first
through the 91 1 number, and non-emer-
gencies handled by the same number
that was always used, 463-9177, more

efficient service is available.

In addition, an emergency phone has
been installed in Lexington Headquar-
ters for people who need immediate as-
sistance.

They can go in and lock the door
behind them and get someone at Cen-
tral Dispatch without dialing if, for ex-
ample, they are being chased or can’t
get to another phone.

Tom Snead, head of Central Dis-
patch, -aid it’s up to the Lexington de-
partment to detemrine how they will
make information available.

For the most part, the Central Dis-
patch center only has information on
the initial call. Police reports and arrest
records never reach their database.
According to their policy, no informa-
tion will be released from the Central
Dispatch office.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1998

Swingin’ sophomore Stephen Pesce ﬂips and dips
Bicenquenquagenary Ball on Saturday night. Man
co-chair Nate Tencza: “It was absolutely wonderful. Erin McGrain,
hard. It went off without a bitch. I don’t know if it could have been done any better.”

Bicenquenquagenary Ball swings wonderfully

his date to the music of Chairmen of the Board during the P
y students agreed that the Ball was an amazing success, including 250'“
Mandy Stallard and the steering committee worked so

Photo y llister Hoey/Exertive Eitr

Peter Hart dissects Election ’98

By Polly Doig

News EDITOR

“Ten percent of Americans think
that pollsters can predict the future 
that puts us well ahead of the Ouija
board and the Magic 8 Ball.”

So spoke Democratic pollster Peter
Hart during a lecture that analyzed the
1998 election at Washington and Lee
University last week.

Hart, the founder of Peter D. Hart
Research Associates and a consult-
ant for NBC News, was a Woodrow
Wilson Visiting Fellow at W&L and
addressed several classes in addition
to his lecture. Hart demonstrated the
intricacies of polling to students by
tracking the Maryland gubernatorial
race over a period of months, and
asked students to pick a winner based
on popularity. Hart himself did polling

in several races this year, including that
of incumbent Sen. Patrick Leahy of
Vermont and that of Charles Schumer,
who upset incumbent Sen. Alfonse
D’Amato in New York.

According to Hart, the major les-
son of the 1998 election is that, out of
the 455 races nationwide in which in-
cumbents were running, only 1 1 lost.
“When 444 incumbents get re-elected,
[the voter are] telling us something:
‘I’m not unhappy,” Hart said. “1998
was a great election because the pub-
lic was more positive than in any other
period we’ve seen in the last 15 years.”

According to Hart, more than 75
percent of the American public said
they were happy with the direction of
their personal finances, and 86 percent
were happy with the economy overall.

Hart also analyzed reasons behind
the Republicans’ inability to make the

I-Club organizes hurricane relief

By Eszter Pados

STAFF WRITER

While several Central American
countries cope with one of the big-
gest natural disasters in their modern
histories, members of the Washington
and Lee University community estab-
lished relief funds to support nation-
wide efforts to help the countries re-
cover from Hurricane Mitch’s devas-
tation.

The International Club at Washing-
ton and Lee University set up a relief
fund specifically to help Nicaragua.

Bill Overbaugh, president of the
International Club, said that the fund
is concentrated on Nicaragua because
that country has been the most heavily
hit. The fund was proposed by fresh-
man Silvana Flinn, who is a native
Nicaraguan. Furthermore, Flinn’s inﬂu-
ence made the club look more closely
at Nicaragua.

Hurricane Mitch hit northern South
America, with Nicaragua, Honduras,
El Salvador and Guatemala among the
most heavily hit. As of Wednesday,
the disaster had killed more than
1 1,000 across Central America and
more than 3,800 in Nicaragua alone.
Furthermore, epidemics such as chol-
era, malaria and dengue are expected
to break out shortly. In addition to
Hurricane Mitch, Nicaragua was hit by
an eruption of Cerro Negro, which cre-

ated a mudslde that destroyed five vil-
lages. “The greatest tragedy of this
particular event was that it wiped out
whole extended families and some of
the children that have survived have
nothing and no one in this world,” Ena
Flinn, Silvana’s mother said.
Nicaraguans are pleading for help.
Flinn said that her efforts are a re-
sponse to an e-mail she received from
her cousin in Georgetown, who told
her that universities such as
Georgetown University and James
Madison University have organized
funds in support of the relief effort.
Nicaraguan students studying in the
United States were asked to make ef-

forts for this cause.

“I presented the idea to the Inter-
national Club,” Flinn said. “I wanted
to do something. We need all the help
we can get.” ‘

Overbaugh said that members of
the club unanimously supported the
fund. Donation boxes were set up last
Monday. As of Friday, the club had
collected more than $700.

James Casey, visiting professor of
economics, has also set up a relief pro-
gram; his focuses on Honduras. He is
collecting donations, mostly clothing,
from University of Virginia students
and Lexington residents.

“Besides my own, I have clothes

from the Lexington community,” Casey
said. “Also, the athletic department
has donated a lot of clothes.”

The donation fund is set up in
Charlottesville.

“I’m going to Charlottesville this
weekend,” Casey said, “to take some
clothes over to the American Red
Cross.”

Overbaugh said the International
Club was initially uncertain which relief
organization would receive the col-
lected donations. It had planned to use
the Nicaraguan Relief Fund. Overbaugh
said, however, that this organization is

See HURRICANE, Page 2

Recycling progresses slowly

By Eszter Pados

7 STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee University's
Recycling Committee passed a pro-
posal last year to expand and enhance
the recycling program on campus.
They still have not made much
progress.

President Elrod “is in favor of the
improvement of the program; however,
due to other commitments, could not
approve the proposal,” Recycling
Committee Chair Steve McAllister said.

If approved, the new recycling pro-
gram would require the addition of two
positions at the University to handle
the collection and transfer of recycled
materials to a recycler, Steve

A McAllister said.

“I would not say that [President
Elrod] denied funding of the program,
but instead asked us to look at alter-
natives," he said. '

Junior Ashley Penkava, a member
of the Recycling Committee, took mat-
ters into her own hands her freshman
year

“There were no recycling bins
around freshman year,” Penkava said.
“So I went to [University Treasurer]
Larry Broomall, and he gave us money
for some bins.” ’

Penkava said the committee made
extensive efforts to provide recycling
bins for fundamental materials, such
as glass, paper and aluminum. Their
proposal was rejected, she said. The
Board of Trustees passed a regulation
that the school could not hire any more

See RECYCLING, Page 2

substantial gains expected in light of
the Monica Lewinsky scandal.

“The American public had no in-
tention of voting for impeachment in
this election; [many] Repub.licans_ ran
on this platform, and I think they were
faulted for not doing the people’s busi-
ness,” Hart said.

Only 31 percent of voters said that
the issues most important to them were
moral standards or Monica Lewinsky,
while 52 percent said they cared more
about education, health care, Social
Security or jobs. Nationwide, President
Clinton’s job approval rating remains
an overwhelming 68 percent.

“If Republicans move this [im-
peachment] through the House and
the Senate, I think they will do it in a
way that will ire the public,” Hart said.

In his explanation of the art of poll-
ing, Hart pointed out the weaknesses

of the system.

“We’re only as good as our respon-
dents. And our respondents, in part, always
thinkthatthey’re going to do the rightthing.
Typically, they think that they’re going to
vote, and in reality, a lot of people don’t,”
Hart said.

In this past election, however, Hart’s
polls proved to be extremely accurate.

“The highest count we did said that voter
turnout should be about 39 to 40 percent. It
turned out to be 38 percent,” Hart said.

And tumout, according to Hart, was the
most important factor for Democrats in the

1998 election. He cited an increased num-
berof minorities and Union-aﬂiliated work-
ers as crucial to the Democrats ability to
hang on.

“The single most important thing in
democratic society is voting  the most
important thing in an election is who’s go-
ing to vote,” said Hart.

11 at 8 p.m. in Lenfest.

November 16, 1998
OPINION:

Speaking Tradition
W&LrFE:

SPORTS:

    

Professor Emeritus Severn Duvall, senior Drew
Higgs and sophomore Ryan Truax rehearse for
“Secret Service,” which will beperformed on Dec.

@112 {King-tum lﬁlri

Letter on alcoholism, getting involved and the

Top 100 things to do at W&L before graduating

Football closes with dignity and two fall stars

Photo courtesy of Susan Wager

PAGE 3

PAGES 4&5

PAGES 6&7

 

/Z
I-

    

1” g(,‘_,'..(,

-x‘,

7   ,/to

D  . .

t“'7
"WK
Jig

;%
» 2/
PAGE 2

 

'\S\

N

HURRICANE

continued from page 1

associated with the government.

“We are afraid that the donations will go to political par-
ties, not to the people who need it,” Overbaugh said.

Lydia Ellena, Nicaraguan Embassy representative, encourages
the club to send the fund to the embassy. According to Ellena, the
embassy has set up three ﬁmds, one with the Red Cross, one with
the Nicaraguan Foundation and one with Catholic Relief Services.
“It’s guaranteed that the donations will get to the Nicaraguan
people,” Ellena said. “We will send [all the donations] to the Emer-
gency Committee in Nicaragua” She added that the Committee
guarantees direct delivery of the donations to the people. “We
guarantee that they will get [them] as soon as possible.”

The lntemational Club decided to work with Casey by
sending its donations through the American Red Cross. Dona-

tions collected by the lntemational Club will go on to Nicaragua.

Donations, including money, blankets, canned goods and
clothes, can be made through the lntemational Club. The
lntemational Club will continue to accept donations, even
though the collection boxes have been removed. Students
can contact Overbaugh or Flinn to make donations.

“There is still a great need for medicine. Nicaragua at the
moment needs antibiotics in many forms, fungicides, con-
struction materials, insecticides, food like milk and anything
people want to donate,” said Flinn.

She is very grateful for the tremendous support of the
lntemational Club and the community overall.

“Members were all interested  everyone has been so
wonderful,” she said. ‘‘I’m amazed at the positive response.”

FORUM

continued from page 1

student body make the decision. “l’ve sensed in the last year
or so a shift in student opinion . . . toward a greater willingness
to ask for the release of names of those who are found guilty
in hearings of the SJC and the SFHB,” he said.

Richter agrees. “Right now we’re trying to decide which
way to go, and I think that the best way to do that is to let
students have a voice,” she said.

Differences in the nature of trials handled by the three
disciplinary bodies were recognized as important factors in
the necessity of naming the convicted. The EC addresses
honor-related questions, the SJC handles criminal cases, and
the SFHB primarily deals with questions of sexual assault.
The consensus of the forum seemed to be that those con-
victed by the SABand the SFHB represent a greater physical
threat to members of the student body, thereby making dis-
closure by those bodies a higher priority to promote

awareness and self-protection.

“In an SFHB trial, a [convicted] person is a menace. Re-
gardless of what kind of sexual assault they committed, they
hurt someone really badly . . . we deserve to know who they
are so we can protect ourselves and our friends,” junior
Meredith Welch said.

However, others argued that the same standards should
apply on-campus as elsewhere.

“Once you’re in the real world and you commit a violent or
even a non-violent crime, as long as you’re over age 18, your
name is published . . . to be lulled into a false sense of security
within our realm of W&L is not necessarily a good thing,”
sophomore Heather McDonald said.

The Ring-tum Phi and The Trident will be conducting a
joint survey in coming weeks to determine student opinion
on the issue. Commentary is welcome. 1

RECYCLING

continued from page 1

people, Penkava said.

The university cannot have Physical Plant employees
deal with the recycling. “They have too much work anyway,”
Penkava said.

The committee’s greatest concern, Penkava said, is big
events such as the Fancy Dress Ball and Alumni Weekend
every year. She said that FD decorations were passed on to
area high schools for their prom decorations, but some of the
decorations are too large for the high school gyms, she said.

‘ “We end up throwing the decorations away.” Penkava said.

Alumni weekends are a problem too. Dinners during
Alumni weekends take place on the Front Lawn. Canned
drinks are served at these events, and the cans are thrown
away,” Penkava said.

McAllister said the university recycles aluminum and card- .

board in addition to mixed paper. The campus has recycling
containers for mixed paper and aluminum cans carnpus-wide.
“There are a number of areas where cardboard is collected,”
he said. “They tend to be the areas where the most signiﬁcant
amount of cardboard is processed, such as the Co-op.”

But some have been unable to find the bins. Tiffany
Cummings, lntemational Student Advisor, has noticed the
lack of recycling bins on campus.

“I wonder why food services don’t have recycling bins,”
Cummings said. “That’s where they are most needed. I feel
bad about throwing my bottles and cans away.”

According to Penkava, food services are “just put off by
the extra work  food services are already wasteful, so much
packaging is thrown away,” she said.

McAllister said the Recycling Committee has begun an
exploration of recycling of newspapers and glass.

“We are hopeful that we can develop a test program this
year to begin an evaluation of the feasibility of recycling these
items campus-wide,” McAllister said
. . . For now, tbecommittee  working with Physical Plant work-

‘ ers to ensure that recycling containers» are at major events such

as Homecoming, Alumni Weekend and Fancy Dress. The com-
mittee has begun recycling aluminum at football games.

“We will be working during the winter and spring to make
certain that this program moves forward,” McAllister said.

Secret Service

A Drama of the
Southern Confederacy

by William Gillette

directed by J. D. Martinez

Dec. 4, 5, 7, 1998 - 8pm
Dec. 6, 1998 ~ 2pm
Dec. 8, 1998 - 9pm
Lenfest Center

Johnson Theatre

Box Ojfice Information

540/ 463-8000

 
 

Ellie ﬂing-tum lﬁlti

EWS

E-mail General Notes to 

 

D-Hall celebrates Thanksgiving

Washington and Lee Dining Service will present a gour-
met Thanksgiving buffet dinner Wednesday from 5:30 p.m.
until 6: 15 p.m.

The menu will include young roasted turkey with pecan
stufﬁng, fresh tidewater crab cakes, roast prime rib with
Yorkshire pudding, baked glazed Virginia ham, mashed
potatoes with giblet gravy, candied sweet potatoes, bran-
died peaches, fresh fruit, cranberry sauce, salads and an
assortment of gourmet breads.

For those who still might have room left after such a
plentiful repast, the pastry crew will have prepared Martha
Washington cake, assorted homemade pies and other gour-
met pastries.

The annual Thanksgiving feast is open to all members
of the W&L community. For University Card-holders, the
cost is $6.50; the cash price is $7.50.

Economics expert gives lecture

Rebecca Blank, director of the Joint Center for Poverty
Research at Northwestern University and a member of the
President’ s Council of Economic Advisors, will speak
Monday at 8 p.m. in Northen Auditorium. Her lecture is
titled “The Current Economy and Welfare Reform.”

Blank conducts research on the interaction among the
macroeconomy, government anti—poverty programs and the
behavior and well-being of low-income families.

Blank has also published extensively in economics and
policy-related journals and serves on a variety of profes-
sional and advisory boards. In 1993, she received the David
Kershaw award, given biannually to a young scholar whose
work has had the most impact on policy.

Jazz Ensemble holds concert

The Washington and Lee University Jazz Ensemble will
present its first annual fall concert Tuesday at 8 pm. in the
Lenfest Center. 7 r 

This performance fea- _
tures several special guest 5
soloists, including clari-
netist Barry Kolman, saxo-
phonist Tom Artwick and
five student vocalists.
Joshua Chamberlain,
Brooke deRosa, Lee Dun-
ham, Jady Koch and
Mollie Harmon will each
sing a solo, and then all
join forces on the old
Johnny Mercer classic
“Dream.”

Kolman will assume

Photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Editor

Senior Marshall Sutton

Benny Goodman’s role in
a swinging rendition of Prepares for the
"sing sing sing" that W111 upcoming concert.

also feature solos by
tenor saxophonist Mark Slomiany and trumpet player Scott
Meister and extended work by drummer Anthony Allen.

Composers featured on the concert include .Duke
Ellington, Henry Mancini, Antonio Carlos J obirn, Irving Ber-
lin, Cole Porter and Hank Williams.

Group for sexual assault victims meets

A conﬁdential support group sponsored by the Uni-
versity Counseling Service will begin meeting weekly for
Washington and Lee women who have experienced sexual
assault or abuse at any time in their lives. Each member will
sign an agreement of conﬁdentiality at the ﬁrst meeting.

Please call Carol Calkins, the Counseling Service secre-
tary, or the University Health Service at X8401 to learn of
times and locations.

LIFE recruits new members

Applications for the peer health organization LIFE,
Lifestyle lnforrnation for Everyone, are due Thursday. For
more information, contact Jan Kaufman at x450 1.

 

 

NOVEMBER 16, 1998

I-Hsiung Ju exhibits work in duPont

I-Hsiung Ju, artist in residence at W&L from 1969 to
1998, and his brothers Tan-ru and Hao-ru Ju will exhibit
their works of calligraphy and painting at W&L’s duPont
Gallery from Nov. 17 through Dec. 1 1. There will be a gal-
lery talk and a reception at 5:30 p.m. Tuesday.

All three brothers are natives of Jiang-yin, Jiang-su,
China.

I-Hsiung Ju, who founded the Art Farm Galleryjust out-
side of Lexington, has worked in many different painting
styles and many different media. His work has been exhibited
in more than 200 art shows in Australia, China, Japan, the
Philippines, Canada, England and the United States.

Tan-ru Ju, the oldest brother, paints in what has been
described as a lyrical and delicate style. He has painted
many scrolls depicting Biblical stories using traditional
Chinese painting methods and materials.

The youngest brother, Hao-ru Ju, is an expert in making
silk scrolls, carving Chops (signature seals) and the resto-
ration of scroll paintings. He is also a versatile calligrapher.

Responsibility series continues

— Vivian-Lee Nyitray will speak in the Responsibility Sym-
posium lecture series today at 7:30 p.m. in Room A214 of
the Science Addition.

Nyitray's lecture is titled “The Single Thread of a New
Confucianism: Public Responsibility and Private Virtue.”
Confucius spoke of a single thread that bound his thoughts
together, namely, an interweaving of the ideas of loyalty
and reciprocity.

Nyitray will examine how these core Confucian ideas
are evolving over and against post-Enlightenment notions
of public responsibility and the way in which a new Confu-
cianism may emerge.

Nyitray teaches at the University of California.

Bacon’s guitar sizzles in Lee Chapel

Classic guitarist Guy Bacon will perform a recital in Lee
Chapel on Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. This may be his last con-
cert in this area because he is planning to return to his
native home, Great Britain, to continue his studies.

Grandson of the American composer Ernst Bacon
and son ofclassical guitarist Joseph Bacon, Guy comes
from a long established family tradition of quality mu-
sic making.

His recital in Lee Chapel will feature works by Bach,
Sor, Mareno—Torroba, Ravel and Britten.

There is no charge for the concert, which is sponsored
by Catholic Campus Ministry, and all members of the gen-
eral public are welcome to attend.

 

F|lAN|('S PIZZA
Ilalivery spacial

4.53-7575

Hot and Cold Subs - Salads — Dinners — Calzones

 

30 Minute Delivery
10 Minute Pick-Up
Please Mention This Ad When Calling In
An Order

Last week, Washington and Lee
Security Officer Ken Hoeffel
learned that his 11-year-old
daughter, Teel, has a tumor on her
spine.

When Teel was ﬁve years old,
she was treated for cancer of the
lung and kidney. She lost a kidney
at that time, but since then she has
been doing well. «

Her teachers at Waddell El-
ementary noticed that Teel was trip-
ping and falling down, more and
more often. Suddenly, last week-

__.end, Teel was unable to walk or
stand without assistance.

Teel underwent surgery at the
University of Virginia hospital on
Tuesday. The surgery went better than expected.

Although the tumor was growing on the spine,
doctors did not have to remove any bone and be-
lieve that the tumor was benign. Test results are
due back today and her parents will learn more about
Teel’s condition.

Teel is out ofintensive care and in a regular room
at UVA Hospital (UVA 7 West, Room 7172B, UVA
Hospital, Charlottesville, VA). She is expected to
be in the hospital for five to seven days and out of

 

Get in the holiday spirit, help a W&L family

  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Teel Hoeffel .7

school for a month.
, Doctors also discovered last
week that Teel has scoliosis, so she
A_ will face further treatments in the
coming months——physical therapy,
probably a back brace, possibly
I back surgery.

Teel’s mother, Delia Hoeffel,
works in the VMI Conference Of-
. ﬁce, but neither Delia nor Ken has
3 employee benefits. They have no
medical insurance because Teel and
Delia have both had cancer in the
past 10 years and the insurance
rates became unaffordable. Teel’s
recent medical expenses are now
an added problem.

St. Paul's Anglican Church has set
up a “Special Fund for Teel” to help with expenses.

Anyone wishing to contribute a tax deductible do-
nation to this cause may send a check to:

St Paul's Anglican Church

Father William Crites, Rector

(check marked: "For Special Fund for Teel")
P.O. Box 1273

Lexington, VA 24450

JAMES  l.EYBLlRN l.lF.lPi>.P.Y
WASHtN.G.T{)l\l at  urw 3
-LEXLNGTON, \./A :.-.ws;r)

  
 

 NOV 161909”

 
 

V

 

 

NOVEMBER 16, 1998

@112 ﬁling-tum lﬂhi

OPINION

 

PAGE 3

STAFF EDITORIAL

Give something back to W&L

Washington and Lee provides its students with
countless beneﬁts. Students love the university for
the beauty of its campus, the intelligence of its fac-
ulty, the smallness of its size, and the honor and integ-
rity that surround its existence.

What, however, do W&L students give back to the
institution that so many of them admire? True, tuition
does count for something, but certain gifts are more
important than those that come from the pocketbook.

Even at a place as small as W&L there are many
opportunities to become involved in campus life. Look-
ing through this year’s campus organization manual,
one can read the same names over and over again.
Unfortunately this shows that many students are
choosing to avoid the inherit responsibility that ac-
companies being a W&L student, which is to contrib-
ute to this university and our fellow students.

W&L’s many great attributes are a direct result of
the fact that preceding generations ensured that they

left the university a better place than when they had
come. Each individual student should try to do some-
thing to improve the campus. Ifyou are unhappy with
a particular aspect of W&L, you should make an ef-
fort to do something about that.

Play a sport, become more involved with fraterni-
ties or sororities, orjoin a campus organization that
piques your interest. When was the last time you sup-
ported the efforts ofyour classmates? Try going to a
concert or a play in Lenfest or cheering on the Gen-
erals at a sports event that isn’t preceded by tailgat-
ing. OK, so the Responsibility Symposium lectures
aren’t the most exciting events in the world, but nu-
merous groups on campus work hard to bring inter-
esting speakers to W&L.

Become more active on campus, either by directly
getting involved or by supporting the efforts of oth-
ers. Don’t expect to take so much from the univer-
sity and give nothing back in return.

Dwight Bitz spices up D-Hall

The other day I had yet another
wonderful experience in the Evans
Dining Hall. The marvelous scent of
those fabulous hot wings greeted me
from across the street, and I knew that,
yes siree bob, this was deﬁnitely go-
ing to be a D-Hall
day. My mouth wa-
tered as I contem-
plated the tantaliz-
ing taste ofa truly
special treat.

Well, let me tell
you, Evans did not disappoint me. Hot
wings were indeed the put-a-little—zing-
in-your-dinnzinger dujour. With a little
wink and smile to the cutie serving
the tasty delights, I secured a hefty
portion for myself. The afternoon was
well on its way to being one to re-
member.

But Evansjust wouldn’t stop lift-
ing my spirits. That gorgeous smor-

. gasbord we,knoyy~,z_:/s “T_he Del,i_Bar}}-.;,

provided my wings with the delectable
culinary accompaniment they so de-
served. And from there, oh the won-
derful choices! Do I want turkey?
ham? rosbif? Do I want cheddar?
American? Swiss? The day I see
Gouda is the day Heaven visits Lex-

 .ﬁ.*~g,Off His Rocker
 Stephen Pesoe ’O1

ington. Now, should I grill the master-
piece? Or is the toaster calling my
name? Stephen Pesce, come on down.
You’re the next contestant to play with
the Big Toaster. So I toasted it. Add a
kiss of mustard embraced by a piece
of lettuce, and my
mouth is thanking
me all the way to the
table.

Here’s where I
get a bit fuzzy. The
actual meal wasjust
a whirlwind of gustatory glee, al-
though I do remember a talking lion
and some ﬂying monkeys. I think we
had a good time. In any case, Mr.
Tummy decided it was time for some-
thing magically delicious (despite
the new funkedelic shapes that give
me nightmares). So I dashed to the
cereal dispensers, and upon ﬁnding
no bowls I let out a large “Doh.”.,.

_- -  l.might,,a_s, well have rubbed amagic,
lamp because that super guy whgmg

never ceases to amaze me appeared in
a ﬂash. Yep, Mr. Bitz, the fabulous
manager of Evans Dining Hall, came
to the rescue. Within seconds I had a
bowl for my Lucky Charms.

Now I may joke about a lot of

things, but when it comes to the
charm and dedication of Mr. Bitz,
there’s nojoke involved. Joking with
Mr. Bitz, however, proves much fun.
Anyone with his spunk and jovial
character is a recipe for success, yet
another to add to Evans’s many. Some-
times you want to go where every-
body knows your name; but ifthat’s
not possible, you can at least count
on Mr. Bitz. Introduce yourselfonce,
and you’ve found yourself a friend
for life.

I would like to thank Mr. Bitz for
the cereal bowl and for making the D-
Hall experience truly special. What a
wonderful world we would live in if
everyone treated hisjob, life and oth-
ers the way Dwight Bitz does.

Ii

Stephen Pesce,
 come‘ on down.
You’re the next
contestant to
play with the
Big Toaster.

1}

Speak, but speak from the heart

One ofthe most revered traditions here at W&L is our
speaking tradition. The tradition of civility and general
friendliness manifests itself fully here. Though some stu-
dents seem slow to pick up on it, most students practice it
and are happy to do so. Some carry it a step further by
engaging in brief conver-
sations with people they
greet. This is where the
problem occurs.

Don’t get me wrong,
it’s great that students
actually go the extra mile
to be civil toward those they might no even know. Many
students, however, feel compelled to engage in small talk
with people they either do not like or do not want to be
around. Both sides suffer: one student suffers through a
conversation that he/she doesn’t necessarily want to par-

. ticipate in, and the other might be misled into thinking

that he/she is on good terms with the other, a dangerous
misconception. The result is a mounting tension.

Don’t misunderstand me; anybody who ﬁnds it too
painful to say, “Hey, what’s up?” to someone they might
not like is ajerk, and anybody who believes that this greet-
ing suddenly spurns a friendship is naive. But the burn-
ing question — should students pretend to like someone

  
  
  
     

flhiﬁ‘ .is?<La1ﬁ9?nuswi
f<.1igniiy'WIﬂ1:énéVI.i13Ii*l5uI In
, ait2ithpr;,st1o’ckixfg;~.tii  “
gfutilge  hi‘s,h¢’é‘n;.~ ’ 

’ ‘I I I ’?tellihg:you.all:this A

 

      
 
  

  

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
     
   
  
     
       
    
  
 
 
 
 
  

Via (Sim; ,VVithial1the:atteritiant baggageithatidiseaséiioar

i'®unt;«Those who like to rationalize say that marijiranagls

 

ii‘ under the mantraof brotherhood and also,be' if A
: cause “fc[a\ndy’s dandy, but liquor is quicl<er.’.’;i' ’ A

4 the  not evehzdescrfpe a safe do'sage:
 on campus_chug-a-lagged a ﬁﬁ11?of“ru‘m

/ ctzlilceligentlerrten and make our grades;

ta pa; attended Yale Medical School, aridis new 

; twwofniy ‘pledge brothers are alcoholics. "
Urinstmiéfoftifyééré as 73.11 ﬁttoméyil have wi11_1e$§¢
_q a }of\thispdiisease:.iti islresponsiwhletf I ' 4‘
tfﬁc‘»and’igenera_1,a,viation deaths;?itis respousi ,
25% of;a1l mental hospital admission
oyed the economic viability of more friends th ‘ I-can‘

htmseds ‘itl- , . . A _ . , .. ,
femories’ like these come back to yotﬂwhile you 
fotinfoningvthe fbéwtingwidow in a privaitegroornthi "
degoif aihospital, emergency room. Air/nongst’_her,te ,
d, bereavement, Igheard her say, f‘Darnn you, Philf’. It

ore dangerous thanalcohol.  ﬁgures like 

-7.IThe.lottg-jterrn‘ effects of ale ,ho1f\vere=notparttoit‘our~ 
liberal,arts3education;t.We usedga drug-from a’? ‘

.All that was" expected of usaby dre’Uni_ye ty ,

yaszappropriate, strangely, bccause what he didfto his _‘
‘ iigwas ,a“vo11,1ntary_act, and thatis whatmade anger at , V, 

ftriponenti ofihisideath. If you /drive a car while you are  ii 4 S
 and kill ,siomeone,«it isn’tan accident; it is voluiitary . ., é

1 tAt7a_ seminar recently atyW8;L,.your'presiderii told us? .   

  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 

,, am,in°my sixth.decade, looking b‘ack’3ai ,e   
. cries oftlieirearly deathyofmypfriend yartdwhat oi11‘so'- , ' "
ial inningsyat  have wrought. I look new ,at’OI}¢.  ‘

.0 imyotlier classmates from Oklahoma who ,wa§71a_Phi‘

 

“It was an enjoyable weekend, but not as
extravagant as FD.”

——Matt Herman ‘OI

“It seemed like senior prom at my high

school.” movie."

—Elizabeth Doenies ’0l

“It felt like a scene from a cheesy ’80s

wlason Giffen ’0l

“It was well done and very cheesy.”

—Virginia Whitney ’O0

when they are around even if they say horrible things
about them behind their back? — must be addressed here
at W&L as well as every other social sphere that exists.
The buildup of tension that results is counterproductive
to what this university is trying to accomplish by keeping
the tradition sacred.

No, I’m not suggesting the administration waste its
valuable time on this issue. Rather, each individual stu-
dent must re-evaluate his/her behavior towards other
people. Forthrightness is a major part of civility. Got a
problem with someone? TELL THEM! You don’t have to
be hostile about it, but be honest. In the long run, both
parties will beneﬁt. Most importantly, W&L will be a bet-
ter place.

QUOTE OF THE WEEK:
{I

It’s going to be a disaster the
ﬁrst time I have sex. I won’t
have any idea what to do!

— Anonymous junior to friend
Oh, don’t worry. I was a virgin

the ﬁrst time I had sex.
—— Friend offering support

J}
Ellie Tiling-tum lﬂhi

Tarah Grant
Hollister Hovey
Polly Doig

John Stewart
Ginger Phillips
Erica Prosscr
Stephanie Bianco
Stephen Pesce
Frances Groberg
Brendan Harrington
Kevin McManemin
Sarah Meldrum
Meredith Mlynar
Emily Barnes
Scott Cameron
Tom Wadlow
Lionel Brown

Executive Editors
News Editors
W&Life Editors
Opinions Editors
Sports Editors

Last Word Editor
Copy Editors

Photo Editors

Online Editor
Assistant Online Editor

Jason Williams
Matt Lorber
Lionel Brown

Business Manager
Advertising Director
Circulation Director

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editors. but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “Talkback” do not
reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
coun deﬁnitions oflibel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington. VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: p/1i@wlu.cdu
http://rrlu.edit/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

 

 

 

PAGE 4

&

@112 ilttng-Eﬂum ilﬂlti

IFE

NOVEMBER 16, 1998

By Erica Prosser and Ginger Phillips

FE/1 TURES EDITORS

We all have graduation requirements: ﬁve P.E. classes,
121 academic credits, you get the idea. But you might not
realize that there are graduation re-
quirements not as explicitly spelled out
in the course catalog. These are the
extracurriculars, events and other
things that you must do to be a true
graduate of Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. These are in no particular or-
der, except for number one (you RE-
ALLY won’t graduate without this
one). Work your way down the list,
and best of luck getting everything
done!

1. Actually fulﬁll your academic gradu-
ation requirements

2. Go to an all—night party at Zollman’s
3. Go see the races at Foxﬁeld

4. Streak the Colonnade

5. Pig out at Sweet Things

6. Chat with Wayne at Night Owl Mu-
sic

7. Have a drink at the Palms (when
you’re 21, of course, and not a mo-
ment before)

8. Have a sandwich at Spanky’s

9. Tour the Lee Chapel museum (we really should take ad-
vantage of all this history right at our ﬁngertips)

10. Fail a test (or a ﬁnal), but preferably not ifyour grade is
already in jeopardy

1 1. Read The Ring-tum Phi every week

12. Go see Professor Futch""s bust ofBismarck

13. Get a midnight snack from the Co-Op

14. Go to a con-
cert in Lenfest
(playing in one is
better)

1 5. Cheer the
W&L football
team on to victory
(or defeat)

16. Take a class
with Dr. Novak
17. Go to dinner
at the Elrods’
(you have to be

invited first,
though)

18. Put a sugar
cube on

Traveller’s grave
19. Go an entire
term without
walking on the
front lawn grass
20. Party at as
many frat func-
tions as possible
2l.GetanAona
paper from Pro-
fessor Ray

22. Pause and
wave at the Col-
onnade cam (you
only have to
stand there for 15
seconds)

23. Have a computer problem solved by the HelpDesk
24. Start an e-mail chain letter around campus (NOT a
virus)

25. Have a coffee break at one of Lex’sjava spots

26. Go crazy over ﬁnding living arrangements offcampus
(this is deﬁnitely a W&L rite of passage)

27. Dress up the Cyrus McCormick statue _

28. Play with a dog on the front lawn (itdoesn’t have to be
yours!)

29. Get a ﬂu shot in the infirmary

30. Become an honorary member of the Breakfast Club
31. Go eat greasy food at Lee—Hi

32. Have a pancake breakfast at Aunt Sarah’s (order the
whole menu; we recommend it)

33. Get your parents drunk on Parent Weekend (then make
them give you lots ofmoney)

34. Drink with the alums on Alumni Weekend (also known
as schmoozing)

35. Have security drive you somewhere (like to your car,
where it’s parked in No Man’s Land)

36. Memorize the “W&L Yell” \

37. Spend an afternoon hanging out in the GHQ Bistro
2000

38. Buy Swedish ﬁsh from the GHQ

39. Go an entire weekend without charging anything home V

40. Buy a gray W&L sweatshirt

41 . Tell the registrar how much you like online registration
(the tradition of sleeping in Newcomb had to end some-
time)

42. Watch the leaves change on the Blue Ridge Parkway

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
Number 5: Sweet Things has the perfect thing
for every student’s sweet tooth

TOP 100

43. Take a road trip to Washington, D.C.

44. Spend spring break somewhere exotic

45. Have your car towed by Baner

46. Have your car chalked by Special Enforcement Ofﬁcer
Clark

  

47. Throw yourself into your Mock Con delegation (“Go
Nebraska! Go Nebraska!”)

48. Get takeout from Hong Kong

49. Spend an evening browsing the Super Wal-Mart

50. Attend at least one Responsibility Symposium

A Lecture

51. Stay sober enough to remember an entire FD weekend
52. Order enough Domino’s pizza to
feed a small third-world country

53. Say ajaunty hello to Dr. Uffelman
when you pass him on campus

54. Go to Kabuki in Roanoke (yes, they
burned down, but they rebuilt! Go
check it out!)

55. Write a 20-page paper in a single
night (gotta love that Water Joe)

56. Order something from one ofthe
eight million J—Crew catalogs ﬂoating
around _

57. Participate in Lip Sync

58. Make the Dean’s List (at least once,
if only to please the folks)

59. Take Professor Jennings’ contem-
porary motion picture (flix) class
(you’ll be glad you did)

60. Get to know your department sec-
retary on a ﬁrst-name basis

61. Start a ﬁve—page paper an hour be-
fore it’s due, and turn it in on time
62. Play an intramural sport

63. Have a snowball ﬁght in the Baker-
Davis-Gilliam Quad

64. Take someone on a campus tour
65. Do your laundry at 3 a.m. (when
the machines are the least crowded!)
66. Be a sober driver (and earn money
in the process!)

67. Go out and play in the waves at
Goshen Pass

68. See the local tourist attractions
(Natural Bridge, the Ghost Tour, Stonewall Jackson house,
etc)

69. Do your fair-weather studying out on the lawn (gotta
work on that tan)

70. Have something retrieved for you through Interlibrary
Loan

Number 55: The laundry room is often blissfully empty and quiet at 3 a.m.

71. Attend a lecture in Northen Auditorium

72. Have a study carrel in the library (and actually use it)
73. Explore the VMI campus

74. Catch the Cadaver Society in the act of putting up those
papers all over the place —
75. Try one of the vegetarian dishes
in the D-Hall

76. Spend a day encouraging the
speaking tradition by saying a bois-
terous hello to everybody you pass
on campus (random hugs optional)
77. Write at least one letter to the
Phi about something important to
you (campus issues, national is-
sues, how great the editors are, you
name it)

78. Be on an EC committee (alter-
nates count), or run for ofﬁce (EC,
SJC, etc)

79. Ace a test (especially good dur-

things turn have to
[In nature will
graduate trom
Washington & lee

have to do before you graduate from W&L.

Those include getting your stomach pumped, having a
car accident (regardless of your blood alcohol level),
committing an HV (even ifyou don’t get caught), send-
ing a campus-wide computer virus that wipes out
everybody’s term papers the week before finals, and so
on.

Basically, don’t do anything that could signiﬁcantly
jeopardize your chances ofgraduating from here, oth-
erwise anything else you do from this list will be point-
less (and make you look like a fool).

Remember: the registrar may not require these things
before you can get your degree, but we felt it our duty to
inform you that, in order to be able to tell people that you
really are from W&L, you must at least attempt to complete
this list. Some of these constitute rites of passage for W&L
students (streaking is fast becoming a popular tradition).
Some of these are just plain fun. But before you leave
Lexington forever for the far comers of the globe, take a
moment and get this stuff done. You’ll be glad you did.

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
Number 7: The Palms is one of the most popular watering holes in Lexington

ing Finals Week)
80. Convince a

prof to have
class outside
on a nice day
81. Go see a
W&L music or
dance recital
82, Listen to
WLUR radio (having your own show

  

is bonus points)

83. Play a piano in DuPont when no
one’s around (even if you can’t actu-
ally play the piano)

84.Shop downtown in the nifty stores
85. Have your hair cut somewhere in
town (really, there’s nothing to be
afraid of)

86. Go to Valley View Mall in Roanoke
(a “real mall,” for those in mall with-
drawal)

87. Go to a class even ifyou don’t re-
ally feel like it (we know, it’s tough,
but you’ll thank us for it later)

88. Learn a foreign language (or at
least a few words of one)

89. Send a stat to a VMI cadet

90. Go watch a sporting event other
than football (this does not include idly
watching a soccer game in progress
while you tailgate)

91. Have dinner with a professor

92. Take advantage of the nighttime
munchies the D-Hall prepares during
Finals Week

93. Go hiking, backpacking or camp-
ing on House Mountain

94. See a movie at the Troubadour
Theatre (it’s free, and they get some
good pictures)

95. Explore Buena Vista (it’s bigger
than you think, we swear)

96. Actually sleep through the sounds
of the garbage trucks crushing trash
at 6 a.m.

97. Camp out for classes anyway,just
for the hell ofit

98. Vote in campus elections

99. Jog the Woods Creek Trail

100. Bring a friend from out oftown
to visit W&L (bonus points if your
friend is a prospective and you con-
vince him or her to come here)

Of course, there are also some
things that you definitely DO NOT

 
   

i V  Emily‘ 1-iiic-s/Pli

By Elianna Marziani
STAFF WRITER

One of the deﬁning characteris-

« tics of Washington and Lee Univer- 1

sity. isthe way that professors inter-
act with their students. Professors
are available for extra academic help
and genuinely care about their stu-
dents’ studies, but they often also
want to get to know their students
better as people.

8 One of the ways that professors
do this is by inviting students to their
homes for dinner.

Professor Michael Smitka is one
of these professors who enjoys in-
viting students to his house to, as
he puts it, “get to know [them] and
be in a situation that is not con-
strained to talking about class-
room topics.”

He asserts that many professors
chose teaching as a career because
they wanted interaction with stu-
dents. -

(“Office hours aren’t always the
best forum for doing that,” he said.

The solution? Invite students
over.

“How students view a professor
is part of how students learn,” he
said;

So for better classroom relation-
ships, students and faculty should
develop better out-of-class relation-
ships.

,Also, he noted, “It’s probably
nice for students to see once in a
while that there is such a thing as a
family, not just D-hall.”

Faculty-student dinners seem
like a great idea, right? Problems
sometimes arise, though, and they
usually turn out to be logistical.

' “lt’s really a challenge for faculty
with families, so it’s a challenge get-
ting students over for me,” Smitka
said.

Finding a night when an entire
class or an entire group of advisees
can come over proves quite a chal-
lenge, as well.

It is worth it, however. Smitka is
disappointed with what he perceives
as “small interaction between fac-
ulty and students” and hopes that
faculty will continue to overcome
these challenges and host such din-
ners.

Also, he hopes that students will
begin taking the initiative them-
selves.

“Students need to think of recip-
rocating and getting faculty over.
Students are very shy about seek-
ing out this kind of interaction,” he
said.

While students may be shy in
seeking out the interaction, they deﬁ-
nitely enjoy it when it happens.

No.91; have dinner
with a professor a

Freshman Amy Burke enjoyed go-
ing to Professor Michael Pleva’s
home for dimer when he hosted
his advisees at the beginning of
the year.

“His wife made us dinner,” ‘she. V
said, “and we just sat around in 1

his living room, talking and eat-
ing.”

Burke believes that going to a
professor’s house for a meal is a
good experience because it gives
a student “an automatic connec-
tion with a professor before
classes [get] started.”

Going to a professor’s house,
petting his dog and chatting with
him about non-school related top-
ics allow students to realize that
professors are real people, not just
graders-of-papers.

“You get to see the professor
in his own personal environment
instead of the chemistry lab. You
get to see what kinds of things he
likes, how he decorates his
house,” Burke said. Dinners in pro-
fessors’ homes add a personal di-
mension to the student-faculty re-
lationship.

Professor Linda Hooks also
thinks that this personal dimen-
sion is very important and one that
should be cultivated.

‘‘I get to see [students] in their
natural setting and they get to see
me in my natural home setting. It
helps in the classroom because we
get more comfortable with each
other and‘ can communicate bet-
ter,” she said.

The best part about these din-
ners?

“What 1 like best about it is that

it’s avery informal setting,” Hooks -

said.
In this informal setting, stu-
dents and professors can get to

, know and respect each other as

individuals and form deeper rela-
tionships than those formed in the
classroom alone.

W&L is very supportive of fac-
ulty-student relationships and en-
courages these get-togethers. In
fact, the University actually has a
small fund that helps professors
ﬁnance these events.

Students should not be afraid
to return the favor, either; stu-
dents can invite professors tojoin
them at home, or even at the Co-
Op, in order to cultivate these re-
lationships. If a student can cook,
all the better, but if not, take-out,
pizza or evenjust sandwiches can
make for a cozy and conducive
atmosphere for getting to know a
professor even better.

So remember: for a true W&L
experience, eat with a professor!

it

?

 

 

HAVING A BALL!

« ' ABICENQUINQUAGENARY BALLGPHOTO ESSAY

 
  

    
    

lloto by Emily iaairns/Piozo Eitor
Chairmen of the Board rock the crowd with their brand of

soul. The band has,toured internationally, in such places as
London’s Hammer-Smith Odeon Theater and New York City’s
Apollo Theater.

“eﬁl

Photo by l-lollister Hovey/Executive Editor
Amidst a sea of black satin and velvet,
Christine Metzger stands out in vintage style.
“I wore a vintage 40s gown I got at the
Stonewall Jackson Thrift Store for $20,”
Metzger said. “It was itchy and strapless, so it
was very hard to deal with.”

Photo by Enil Bashot Eit
Bicenquenquagenary Mania strikes the Warner Center. After

   
  
  
   

it Photo by Hollister Hovey/Executive Editor a year of planning, the event went off with a bang. Ball
Sophomore Stephen Pesce shows everyone that he deﬁnitely can jump, attendees daneed and mingied among images from the
jive and wail. “Last summer, my date Lynne got a bunch of our high university’s past. “Everyone keeps telling me it was better
school friends together and taught us how to dance,” Pesce said. “A ‘few than FD,” 250"‘ Bali Steering Cemmiiiee Ciiaii‘ Mandy Siaiiard
9. of the girls got dropped on their heads a few times, but after a while, we S3id- “We Wel'en’t trying t0 make it 51 e0lnPeiiii0na but We’l'e

got better.” Pesce and his friends used to go to Swing Night at a club at‘ giad eVei'y°ne had Such a g°0d time-” The committee Soid
home in New.0.r|eahs_ . , , ,, i , . , . around $30,000 in tickets and estimates that about 1,500
people attended the ball.

’     y      ii  ROBERT E. LEE SIGNATURES
FOR SALE

Many students took their tired feet outside of
the Warner Center to relax during the ball.

   

Clipped signature with closing w/ CDV ’ 353000
Document signed "R. E. Lee, Lt. Engrs" $4000
1
Letter Signed, Lexington, VA, 1870 $6500
Lee Signed CDV $5500
, AND
Washington College Diploma, 1867 $4500
Photo by Hollister Hovey/Execuive _
Sophomores Pat Renton and Susan Groves , _ _ _ _ 4 -
I dance the night away at the Bicenquenquag_ I I I Photo b Hllister l-lovey/Executive Editor
They started the evening in a more intimate Junior Martha Pettyjohn and sophomore Ruth
setting. “We went to the Inn at Union‘Run for Caldwell leave their dates for a short dance.
dinner,” Renton said. “It’s a little bed and .“I thought [the ball] was very elegant,”
1: breakfast with about 10 tables. Everyone Pettyjohn said. “I like the smaller gym other Leeis: Fitzhugh’  "Rooney" & Lee's Father_In_Law
there was from W&L.” because it made it look like the old days.”

Also Available: Lincoln, Grant, Mosby, Longstreet, Ashby,
Beauregard, Early, A.P. Hiu, Imoben, etc.

Great Framing, Great Service, Great History

Original Frameworks

, t          O 1 North Main St. Lexington, 464-6464
ii Photo by'£iiiiII1lly  ' Ptotu 1y 0 lster ovey ‘xectlllve - itor M‘F /l.0‘6,  9“4,  

4 The mad singer of Chairmen Decked out in tails, senior Whit Morriss grabs for his date,
of the Board gets S0u|fu] with Childs Cantey (not seen). Earlier in the evening, senior Sean
the crowd_ McManus made them dinner by the Maury River.

 

 

PAGE 6

S

@112 iKing—tum lﬁhi

PORTS

NOVEMBER 16, 1998

Football
crushes  

Swarthmore

Generals pound out greatest
offensive output of the season
with 422 offensive yards.

By Brendan Harrington
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee football team ended its
1998 season with a 37-7 thrashing of Swarthmore Col-
lege on Saturday afternoon in Swarthmore, Pa. to ﬁn-
ish the season at 4-6.

The Generals picked up a season-high 422 yards
oftotal offense and scored a season-high 37 points
to hand the Garnet Tide its 28th consecutive loss.

“It was a good way to end the season with a deci-
sive win like that,” junior quarterback Christian
Batcheller said. “We didn’t want to take these guys
lightly and wanted to send our seniors out with a bang.”

The Generals scored early and often and opened up
a 3 I-O half-tirne lead. The Generals struck just 1:56 into
the game when Batcheller hit senior wide receiver Chas
Chastain for a 29-yard touchdown pass. Chastain, ap-
pearing in his ﬁnal game, caught four passes for 70
yards and one touchdown.

Andy Vendig nailed a 28-yard ﬁeld goal at the end
of the first quarter to make the score 10-0, and then the
Generals blew the game wide open with three touch-
downs in the second quarter.

CC

Sophomore
tailback Hanley
Sayers, starting
for the injured
Marc Watson,

Each and every
senior has made '3" it in “Vi”
from three yards

a big impact. out and
Batcheller scored

—— Christian Batcheller 0“ 3 quarterback
sneak on the goal

—’“'"””-"7—  line.

The Generals made it 37-0 when Batcheller threw‘
his second touchdown pass of the day, a two-yard
strike to junior wide receiver J.T. Malatesta with 4:28
left in the third quarter. The extra point attempt failed,
however. Malatesta caught six passes for 73 yards
and one touchdown.

The Garnet Tide (0-8) scored its only points of
the game with just 1:59 left in the game when Joe
Alefﬁ ran it in from three yards out to make the ﬁnal
score 37-7. ‘

Batcheller ﬁnished the day 16-26 for 226 yards and
has now thrown for at least 200 yards nine times in his
career at W&L.

Despite the solid performance by the Generals
that day, Batcheller was relatively disappointed with
the season, as thejunior tri-captain is always striv-
ing to improve.

“We ﬁnished real strong, we won three out our last
ﬁve, but the season was deﬁnitely a disappointment,”
Batcheller said. “We didn’t live up to expectations.
You look back at what could have been e we very well
could have been 7-3. We should have beaten Guilford,
Emory and Henry and Hampden-Sydney.”

Defensively for W&L, freshman lineman Jeff
Mclntyre had six tackles and senior safety John
McAllister and sophomore comerback Will Baker both
had ﬁve.

Brad Baker led the team in both interceptions (four)
and tackles (84) for the season and also scored the
Generals’ lone defensive touchdown of the season last
week against Emory and Henry.

Saturday was the last time the W&L seniors will
dress up in the white and blue as the Generals say
good-bye to a number of key players.

Seniors include captains Chastain and David
Ritchey, who had another fantastic year at tight end for
the Generals.

Also leaving will be defensive end Ben Middendorf,
linebacker Baker, safety McAllister, offensive lineman
Marc Granger, special teams man Lee Swomley, and
wide receiver Geoff Gober.

“If you think about all the seniors and all they’ve
done for the program, you realize each and every one
of them has made large contributions to this team,”
Batcheller said. “They put up some big numbers and
fought through some tough injuries.”

See STATISTICS, Page 7

  

-ofth<?'Ye.r.«a‘  , .
,c:os:i‘¢h:&ir>,tti¢‘“Yeair,l Find:,out<lt<Sw your 2  
, friend;s:.on’.the soccer and volleyball» _ I
- teams’ fared <i1i. the. selections on Page 7.-[ 

   
       

 

Photo by Patrick Hinely/University Photographer

As he did all season, senior forward Sam Chase easily dribbles the ball around the defender.

Chasing

By Tod Williams

STA FF WRITER

Like most athletes who have mastered their trade, Sam
Chase has been playing soccer for a long time. The Gener-
als’ senior standout began when he was ﬁve and has been
playing ever since. But not until college did he become a
strictly soccer junkie.

“Soccer wasn’t my main focus in high school because
of basketball,” Chase said. “The ﬁrst time I concentrated
only on soccer was in college.”

Chase said basketball kept him from playing as much
club ball in high school as most others. Obviously, that did
not hurt his abilities. Chase considered playing basketball
in college instead of playing soccer, but he knew he could
only play one sport. “Soccer was my ﬁrst choice,” he said,
“so basketball just went to the wayward.”

He was sure he did not want soccer to be the only
aspect of his college life, which turned him away from the

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 

Photo by Patrick I-{inely/University Photographer
Even though he sported number 13, his perfor-

mance proved that luck was not an issue.

He had a great career as
a General. Now what?

dreams

Division I schools toward W&L. Chase talked Mikel Parker,
his teammate from high school, into coming with him to
college at Washington and Lee.

“Parker and I were teammates for eight years, and I
couldn’t have been happier,” he said.

A fruitful career has certainly ensued for Chase here in
Lexington. In his junior year he tied the-record for career
goals at 40, and he set the new record for total points with
90. Chase did not quit after his junior year, though.

Chase’ s career numbers, which were ﬁnalized after the
Generals’ 1-2 loss to Hampden-Sydney on Nov. 3 in the
ODAC quarterfinals, are impressive, to say the least. Marks
of 52 career goals and 1 17 total points will stand for quite
some time.

W&L freshman defender/midﬁelder Ricky Schnatz saw
many of Chase’s goals this season ﬁrsthand, and he knows
many of them are not ordinary. “He really pulls some goals
out of [nowhere],” Schnatz said.

But Chase keeps the records in context. “I hope they
stand ﬁve or ten years, long enough for me to enjoy them,”
he said. “But records are made to be broken.”

The records don’t seem to be the most important thing
to Chase. “I mean, they’re pretty neat,” he said. “But in
the long run they won’t matter. You have to playjust for
the love of the game.”

Chase certainly has a love for the game. “What I’ll miss
most are my teammates and the camaraderie,” he said. “Tak-
ing the long road trips with the team and stuff like that is
what I’ll carry with me forever.”

You_wiIl not ﬁnd Chase on the ﬁeld any longer. Well,
not the way most people at W&L are used to seeing him.

“My focus isn’t soccer anymore. I know it’s time to
move on,” he said. ‘‘You’ll see me coaching some club ball
— and maybe playing some amateur ball,” Chase added.

Does Chase’s departure leave the Generals high and
dry? Probably not. Chase said that when he came, soccer
was more or less hit or miss, but that “now W&L soccer is
here to stay.”

“I know they’re going to be good,” he said. “They’ve
got some young talent, and they’re gonna have some great
senior leadership next year. Paul Wallace [W&L’s fresh-
man midﬁelder] is a hell ofa player,” Chase said.

How does Wallace feel about Chase’s graduation?
“He’s a real spark,” Wallace said. “Everyone is really go-
ing to step it up next year.”

Snodgrass ﬁlls
tall order for
volleyball

By Steele Cooper

STAFF WRITER

Standing only 5’6" alongside some of the tallest ath-
letes around, senior Megan Snodgrass has established
herself as a big force for W&L volleyball. Snodgrass is a
middle blocker for the Generals, a position that is tradition-
ally ﬁlled by the tallest of volleyball players. Through smart
playing and a strong commitment to her sport, Snodgrass,

a

as captain, helped lead her team to itssecond straight
ODAC championship last week
Snodgrass began playing volleyball when she was in-
troduced to it in her seventh grade gym class. “One day I
had a choice between
running track and
“ playing volleyball,
Sh - t and volleyball was
3 can Jump just more fun,” said
Snodgrass.
out of the  Snodgrass grew
_ Coach Dadl.0_ up as a basketball
player. She was able to
Campbell maintaina balance be-
9 9 tween her two sports,
and played both bas-
ketball and volleyball for W&L her freshman year.

During high school, Snodgrass’ father served as her
biggest inﬂuence. “He has always been a coach and a
mentor for me,” she said. “He has encouraged me to pur-
sue my goals, and was always very positive for me.”

After several years of volleyball with her school and
her local Junior Olympic program, it was clear to Snodgrass
that she could compete in college. “I had several offers to
play [volleyball] at other schools,” she said, “but I really
wanted to come to W&L. Volleyball was something that
came along with the school.”

At W&L, Snodgrass made a tremendous impact on the
volleyball team with many factors of a successful player.
“She is an all around solid and consistent player,” said
Terri Dadio-Campbell, women’s head volleyball coach.

“At 5’6" it is an amazing accomplishment for her to take
us to ODAC’s,” Dadio-Campbell said. “She is a very smart
player that has the ability to read the defense very well,
and place the ball where she has to.”

Apparently smart play is not the only factor that has
led to Snodgrass’ success on the court. “She has an in-
credible standing vertical and a huge block,” Dadio-
Campbell said. “She can jump out of the gym.” These at-
tributes have added to the Generals’ competitive edge over
the past several successful seasons.

Snodgrass’ leadership skills as captain on and off of
the court have inﬂuenced the other members of the team.
“She’s an excellent captain who sets a good example by
working hard all the time with a good attitude,” freshman
Ricka Hildebrand said.

“I’ve learned from Megan how to be a really strong
team player and get the most from practice,” Hildebrand
said.

That team camaraderie is what Snodgrass identiﬁes as
the most important thing she has gained from four years
on the team. “The friends I have made through. athletics
are the closest because of the team aspect of the sport,”
she said. “That’s probably the main reason why I’ve stuck
with it.” _

Snodgrass is unsure what the future holds for her after
she leaves W&L, but she is certain that she will still be
playing volleyball. “I can see myself teaching and coach-
ing down the line,” she said, “because [volleyball] is some-
thing that I’ll always enjoy.”

~--.~.,.;;;;;.1 " '

Senior Megan Snodgrass spiked her team to‘
two consecutive ODAC championships.

Photo courtesy of Pam Salisbury

 

y.

 

 

 

NOVEMBER 16, 1998

SiF‘“O”RT s

PAGE 7

W&L scores big in ODACS

Players and coaches alike honored in soccer and volleyball.

MEN’s SOCCER

Two Washington & Lee student-athletes highlight the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference (ODAC) men's soccer
all-conference selections. The all—ODAC squads were an-
nounced following the league's coaches meeting on Mon-
day afternoon.

W&L senior back Mikel Parker was voted the league's
Player of the Year. Parker, a native of Marietta, Ga., an-
chored the Generals defense which allowed just six goals
in conference play. W&L advanced to the league touma-

_ ment seeded fourth with a 10-4-3 overall record.

W&L freshman sensation Paul Wallace was voted the

, league's top rookie. Wallace, a native of Roanoke, Va., was

selected as the Rookie of the Year following a season in

which he scored 11 points (three goals and ﬁve assists) ,

and was voted a first team all-ODAC midﬁelder.

lst team all-ODAC

Senior forward Sam Chase
Senior defenseman Mikel Parker
Junior midﬁelder Jamie Parker
Freshman midﬁelder Paul Wallace

All-ODAC honorable mention
Senior goalkeeper E]. Murphy
ODAC Player of the Year
Senior defensman Mikel Parker

ODAC Rookie of the Year
Freshman midﬁelder Paul Wallace

WOMEN’s SOCCER
The women’s team was also honored extensively at the

. ODAC meeting. The team captured the ODAC regular sea-

son championship, but lost to Roanoke in the semiﬁnals of

, the tournament. Here are the individual awards earned by

 

the team.

!st team all-ODAC

Senior forward Karin Treese
Senior defenseman Nicole Johnson
Freshman midﬁelder Kate Bidwell

2nd team all-ODAC

Senior forward Ginny J emigan ‘ ‘
Sophomore midﬁelder Shana Levine
Sophomore midﬁelder Margaret Hunter-Tumer

   

eﬂw  

SW3

  
   
 
     

  

YES!

 ° be

VOLLEYBALL

The Washington & Lee Generals took home the
Coach of the Year and Rookie of the Year conference
volleyball honors.

Terri Dadio-Campbell took home the Coach of the Year
hardware for the second straight year, third time in the last
four. In 1998, Dadio-Campbell led W&L to a 23-2 season,
which also marked the third time in four years that she has
accomplished such a feat as the Generals leader. However,
W&L has never made an NCAA Tournament appearance,
but things could change this season as the Generals cur-
rently sit in the eighth slot of the South Region.

In the ﬁrst year for the ODAC Rookie of the Year award,
the Generals‘ Lindsay Ruckert earned the inaugural honor.
Heading into the ODAC Tournament, Ruckert was second
in the conference in hitting percentage (.344) and ﬁfth in
kills per game (3 .01). In addition, Lindsay is tied for ﬁrst on
the team in blocks with 0.7 blocks per game.

lst team all-ODAC

Freshman Lindsay Ruckert
Junior Nancy Reinhart

ODAC Rookie of the Year
Freshman Lindsay Ruckert

ODAC Coach of the Year
Terri Dadio-Campbell

Van: OIDQRTO
non TIIE

ﬂing-tum
iﬂlti

I .
 A is --¢atr~-Ghana! on   
Emilee: 4.\'l M-O60

STATS FROM PAGE 6

Game Statistics

SCORE BY QUARTERS 1 2
Swarthmore (0-8) 0 0
Washington & Lee (4-6) 10 21
WLU
First Downs 22
Rushes-Yds (Net) 40-136
Passing Yds (Net) 286

Passes Att-Com-Int 27-17-3
Total Offensive Plays-Yds 67-422

Fumble Returns-Yds 1-0
Punt Returns-Yds 2-2
Kickoff Returns-Yds 2-27
Interception Returns-Yds 5-48
Punts (No. Average) 1-22.0
Fumbles-Lost 2-1
Penalties-Yds 7-94
Possession Time 32:53

3

0
6

4

7—7
0--37

SC

17
28-39
294
49-22-5
77-333
1-0
0-0
5-52
3-42
2-31.5
1-1
8-68
27:07

RUSHING: WLU — Hanley Sayers 26-97, Kyle
Overstreet 2- 16, Carter Lee 6- 1 1 , Roman Koshkin
2-6, Chas Chastain 1-4, Christian Batcheller 2-2,
Russell Wrenn 1-0. SC — Joe Aleﬁi 9-23, J.P.
Harris 9-18, Donovan Goodly 8-1 1, Prince Achime
1-2, Mason Tootell 1-minus 15.
PASSING: WLU —— Batcheller 16-26-3-266,
Wrenn 1- 1 -0-20. SC — J.P. Harris 21-46-4-268,
Adam Booth 0-1-O-0, Donovan Goodly 0-1-1-
0, Mason Tootell 1-1-0-26.
RECEIVING: WLU -— J .T. Malatesta 6-73,
Chastain 4-70, David Ritchey 3-53, Sayers 2-64,
Geoff Gober 2-26. SC —— Brian Bell 7-80, Blake
Atkins 6-81 , Donovan Goodly 3-66, Mason Tootell
3-33, Joe Alefﬁ 2-28, Charlie Ellis 1-6.
INTERCEPTIONS: WLU — Tom Monaco
1-8, Will Baker 1-12, .IeffBahI 1-9, Brad Baker
1-0, Harry Brookby 1-19. SC — Adam Booth
1-28, Axel Neff 1-14, Tony Hillery 1-0.

1

Now offerin

-Sushi Bar - made

Harris

Teeter

gresh daily.

-Natural and Organic Foods.

-One of the largest import and micro brew
beer selections.

...:...1..Q°_/¢2.,COS€. dis.co.unt.. on wine purrchases

- ATM

Up TO $10,000 Within Days!

  CRITI

Guaranteed Credit Cards with Credit Limits

NO CREDIT, NO J OB, NO PARENT SIGNER, NO SECURITY DEPOSIT!

d credit - no income?

If You Think You
Can't Get A Credit
Card, Think Again.

    

D 4 Pp
l

 

l'““""'"'""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""'”""""""""""‘l

     ORDER FORM

I want Credit Cards immediately. GUARANTEED APPROVAL-

CRA, PO BOX 16662, ATLANTA, GA 30321

   

Turned Down?

NZIIIIC .......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,,

S -

I Address ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... .. i
C‘ I S '

| ity .................................................................................................................... .. tate ............................................... .. Zip .................................................... .. I

.
Signature .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ..

Tired of Bei
  Guaranteed $10,000 In Credit!

 

 

@112 iliing-tum iﬂhi

LAST WORD   

Let’s face it: there's an easy way to

Humor Page

PAGE 8

V
C C
. . ls: ' l‘ l t  " t ' " « .
n  nmmmc a w&L AAUAIACHCCA nsteid of hoping to ( law peop e 0 conuits Why no consider giissying up our campus A
by highlighting the crappy bands that come events to pull in -.1 little more of the local

here, why not highlight the bands they cover? crowd? .

 A Friday, December 11 Sunday ‘
  ‘   ’jet Mwtlier iﬂisterin 1 Sunday

mediocre SA'E concert event:

By Kevin McManemin FRIDAY’ NOv€MB€R '7 ' A RicJ’¢::aT(:yC?i:ii:/ :'::::r.

AN EMPOWERED AND INFORMED MEMBER OF SOCIETY SCl€NC€ ADDITION ROOM A313

Theyire everywhere you go on campuSA NOA lam not] Geology disseitation:“ThAe t'ornA1ation ofigneouslime- A.»   '"~ ».    A no-holds-barred  af
talkin about white on s" I’m talkin about osters Post- Stone plateaus on the alluvial mam of the upper Mekong Z i A i I I H P W I -
dg , _ P] y ’ I g  ‘ Valley in the late Cenozoic era,” Prof. Dr. Humphrey .. .. : ~ Po rest 'ng and
CTS 8 vertising S0010 Ogy CCKUFCS, I'CSp0l’lSl l lty sympo- PA S d k PhAD UCLAA AA A. . . - ' A ‘
siums, math colloquiums, and all manner of dull campus P0 we er’ ' . A. _ y A A L'ngu'5t.'c  earl’-

events. Or rather, posters doing a very poorjob of adver-

 

tising all manner ofdull campus events.A A A A A , AAA Hover the Hills and Far Away" and a lot of
Students rarely forgo their usual enriching activity of . . »  ‘ ~
. . ,. . . . . . ,  other songs as played by Jersey Jake ,
drinking heavily to attend these activities. I witnessed this . I h . C . Y
ﬁrsthand the other day when our English class went to a andt e E/ecmc Ontrapnon
poetry reading by some poet no one’s ever heard of and 7 _
the place was about as packed as a “Quayle in 2000” rally. I A A  ~  _ , _A _ Tlckets
Frankly, I blamethe posters. Most of them are just bor- ’ . P3Vll110I1- A.-  '- T $9 HOW; "
ing, blandly giving you the who, what, and the where.  I  Rain site: A  _'_A'A slightly
Some of them have pictures of the speakers. OK, this is ’ * . A the I ' A‘  more at
just a bad idea. I’m sure a lot of these Princeton profs have ‘AA b d h_ A1 AA Pavﬂhon _  A ,.AA A  . the doon
it where it counts upstairs, but in some act of divine kannic (wl not 6 serve a” ‘S ecture) A
alignment, the Man Upstairs compensated by giving them . '
facegthatresemb|etwo.month—o1droadkill, Above all, we must always remember the four cardinal laws of Madison Avenue:
Example: the other day I was shocked at the lack of 1) appeal to the hip urban youth demographic 2) sex sells 3) sex sells‘4)Asex sells.
decorum one of the speakers displayed by including a pic-
ture of them mooning the camera. Then I ﬁgured out it was I . M ‘
a face shot. m 1,1 C  5 F
We must learn from the men who control our collective  ©  U l U m I JUST Conn]. 981. enough of §  F‘
consciousness from the ad agencies of Madison Avenue. » i . 0
They know that successful advertising has nothing to do Wassup’ yo? Wad We 2 fdegreg llnfegmis alnd E  
with presenting the truth and everything to do with selling got‘; "5 anut/7f? d0pe'35A'-5" X +2y=c00li I erentia equations. E A‘.
people what they want. With that in mind, I’ve created a mat/7 C0//‘7‘7""”’7 00'7"” ?_
few posters to show how to pack in the crowds at your atc/73: Y0” k/70W W/755 /777
next campus event. saying? 0/: "/V1.6’. "  2' I
MacDouga/ be in da A A A Sunday Dec. 6, 8- I O Na sftirt ‘A
/7/zz/'o’y-/rouse, doing the ' AA p.m. Tickets $5 at the Na 5;we5A
A mat/7 ti/vang, you know ’ door. «M, tegtfh
what I m say/ng? “Come for the blood — Game an in/»
Robinson Hall Room 6, be stay for the po|emics."
. up in this piece 6 p.m. . I A _ ..  ‘
- F/7'a’ay da 20th fo .9 plzatty ‘*  ,  e r '
~ phat time. A  e e e I
.463.l37l   I   s
, l
I J I . society. “The Lord told me so himself,” he said. are slated to play at the National Depression Preven- if
i‘     ii    The conservative Christians also take umbragc with a tion Fund’s beneﬁt concert next month in Chicago. The
i , A  , V — Bible verse in which Jesus urges people to ‘love thy money raised inthe concertwill go to research and treat-
_ , , neighbor’ without making provisions for if your neighbor ment of clinically depressed teens.
, ﬁcmously reported by "e_”"’ McManemm is ahomosexual, a foreigner or Jewish. . s ’ Depression is an issue that deeply concerns Cotgan.
iii  Y   ii . " “Scripture shows that Jesus was soiton prostitution,” “It’s a shame that in today’s world, this bleak, festering l
’ ‘ ' Christian Right condemns outraged mother oftwelve  Jo Dinwiddy ofOgIetree, hole of notliingness and disgust, this ffempty s:AvirIing
AAA F H B R t AAA B ibl e as blasphemous , (C)}Aerc:Ag:1ds::AciA.AAA Is this the kind of role model we want for :Ai)01AiAiAAcA>t”(§i(::As;)aaAiAr,AAArA1A1A2A1ny young people su er from epres-
 .. W   Tupelo’ MS "" Several conservative Christian “The Bible is an abomination before the eyes of the “Existence is dark and meaningless,” Corgan added. ,
, group? have °f’m° t°g°the_r.t° Sign a _Pr°°l‘_‘mati°" Lord, and I urge all God—fearing followers of Jesus to join The Pumpkins, whose album “Mellon Collie and the
7i     m is decrying the Bib‘: as “too liberal’ “a'1‘An'fam1ly ’ and us in burning this blasphemous book,” Rev. Scrodwattle Inﬁnite Sadness” is the highest—grossing double album
“a poor exam 6 °r°"F.nat'°n’Sy0ut  ‘d. i I f ii t' , ttih I ‘ t t h ld eceiit
9 V “There’s that one line about ‘judge not lest ye be Sal :e:eﬁt“;fn::t:o e on y music 5 ms 0 0 r
1 I judged} Whatkind °f5“bV"’5iVePi“k° .am°’a1°r3P is Smashin pum kinsrheadline Industrial shock-rocker Marilyn Manson donated "~
35:     is ﬂ1at?”ReV;HImmP- S°r_°dWat“°§a*d- S°r.°dW§“1°>PaSt°r g . I p. halfofthe proﬁts ofhis latest tour to Catholic charities.
. . _ , . y , ofFirst United Church uiamaniio, Texas, said that true A depression and concert , Rap Sm Wu Tang Clan held a beneﬁtconcm form,
Ch’"5"a“5 belle“ that 3J“d8m°“‘a‘ 5°°‘e‘>’ *5 a3°‘“>’ Chicago-Billy Corgan and the Smashing Pumpkins local Police Athletic League last month.
. , . a t
I The Ring Tum Phi
N“"‘“°“F”°‘s BACKSTREET
Serving Size: 1 page _ , ll
Servings Per Container: 8
Amount per serving . " (
Calories 40 A
 zg TATTOOS
% U.S. RDA
Saturated Fat 1% ' ' . ' ~'   ,l  I S I    9 P .
Total Fat 0% A A  A ' I a  iA- AAA ‘
Unsaturated Fat 3% The areas first tattoo studio COIISISICIIU} creating the best . 9 Will   lee A
Partially Saturated IA7at 2% tattoos in the area! Lexingtom   4  M0ndaVlIFrida\z A ,»
'1 . . .
Vitamin A 0% ‘ V " ' ' ' _
Vitamin p.14 0% New needles every customer, Clean comfortable B ,  P A  r e
Vitamin P 0% . Th d 1. d . I .131“ C A Cllleell ll: 3 Ills illll. '  pill.
Foiic Acid 0% CIWIKIIIIIICIII, 0118.111 53 0 ES1gIlS Elli 81 C, OW!‘ llp ‘
Tin 20% - . , .   S
Folic Add A 45% , or inst Iii. up an old tattoo. . I ommgg 1213 any 3).
Not a signiﬁcant source of    .
dietary ﬁber. I
~ PARTYII I  
Ingredients: wood pulp, , . . .
inks, com syrup, partially Having it party’? Make it a tattoo party. * That's right we can setup in A
"Y‘"°g°“a‘°d PY”"°‘i“° your home, into: sorority house with our
hydrochloride zinc extract ' ' _ A ,A .
#12s freshness Preserved "TRAVELING TATTOO STUDIO" 
by BHT  A
. * F A A  A
ion of 4 or more mu the booked in advance
Distributed by Phi Foods, Ml ' , Pam d , 5  l 3
Battle Creek, Michigan_ cntioiit 5 a and i1:ccive$10.(Xl off ol your tattoo

 

