:
u

a

   

4 Two students
'* charged with
vehicle theft

74.

Washington and Lee University
VOLUME 101, NUMBER 5

Clip: Iﬁing-tum Iﬂlti 

OCTOBER ‘12, 1998

 

by Hollister Hovey
and Polly Doi g

EDITORS

Two sophomore women were
charged last week on two counts of
felony unauthorized use of a vehicle,
in connection to a joyriding incident.

According to the Rockbridge
County Sheriff s Department, Ellen S.
Elliott of Denver, Colo., and Stephanie
A. Fortener of Dublin, Ohio, went with
friends to Berky’s Restaurant at Lee-
Hi truckstop after a night of partying
on Oct. 1.

Fortener

Elliott

Soon ‘after, the women left the res-
taurant on ‘foot and began walking
along U.S. Route 1 1 toward the city of
Lexington. Arresting ofﬁcer Deputy
Rob Tacket said the girls passed
Goad’s Body Shop on the same road,
and found two vehicles with the keys
in the ignitions.

Elliott took a Nissan Pathﬁnder from
the lot, while F ortener took a Corvette,
and both began driving toward Lex-
ington. Fortener arrived on the Wash-
ington and Lee University campus and
parked the car in the Gaines parking
lot. Elliott’s vehicle apparently did not

by Hollister Hovey

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

University of Wyoming student,
Matthew Shepard, was kidnapped,
tied to a fence, pistol whipped in the
head, burned and left to die. The likely
motivations for the crime — robbery
and Shepard’s homosexuality.

A biker found his body 18 hours
later and mistook him for a scarecrow
because of the way he was tied up.
For 12 of those hours that Shepard’s
body hung on the fence, temperatures
dropped below freezing.

    

have lights, and she pulled over to the
side of the road and passed out be-
hind the wheel.

Tacket found Elliot and asked her
to take a breathalizer test, which she
refused. Elliot was subsequently
charged with driving under the inﬂu-
ence and refusing to take a breathalizer
test.

According to Tacket, Fortener
awoke the next morning and, “took the
car to the country with every intent of
returning it.” Later that day, she turned
herself in and made a full confession.
She was charged with felony unautho-
rized use of a vehicle last Thursday.

Elliott agreed to cooperate with
police after Fortener came forward.

Charges were ﬁled against Elliott
on Oct. 7 and against Fortener on Oct.
8. Tacket said the car theft charges
were delayed because the girls agreed
to cooperate and were considered a
low ﬂight risk.

Felony unauthorized use of a ve-
hicle carries with it penalties of up to
ﬁve years in prison. It is a lesser charge
than grand theft auto, and recognizes
“joyriding,” and the intent to return
the vehicle. Elliott’s refusal to take the
breathalizer test will result in a one-
year suspension of her driver’s licence
ifshe is found guilty.

W&L President John Elrod said in
response to the incident, “Either or
both of [the women] may choose to
withdraw. If they choose not to do so,
they’ 11 probably be found guilty by the
SJC.” ' 1

Dean of Students, David Howison,

Gay student beaten,

Shepard, 21, remains unconscious
in deteriorating critical condition at a
Fort Collins, Colo. hospital. He suffers
from a cracked scull, burns and cuts.

Russell Arthur Henderson, 21, and
Aaron James McKinney, 22, were
charged with attempted murder and
kidnapping. Police added aggravated
robbery charges because Shepard’s
wallet and patent leather shoes were
stolen.

Police said the men lured Shepard
from a University of Wyoming hang-
out by telling him they were gay.

Police charged two women, Chas-

pleted by August 2000.

Finally, a groundbreaking development

Holding the ceremonial Chi Omega shovel, sophomore Elizabeth Holleman accompanied by (left to right) junior Mary-
Heather Welder, sophomore Georgie Hickam, sophomore Julie Boncarosky, and junior Ashley Penkava represented Chi
Omega on Friday at the Sorority House groundbreaking ceremony. Construction of the five house is expected to be com-

 

Photo by Christie Phillips/Photo Editor

refused to comment about honor-re-
lated ramiﬁcations.

Both women have a trial date set
for Nov. 20. As of press time, both
women were still residing in Gaines
Dormitory. They did not return phone
calls regarding the incident.

left to die

tity Vera Pasley, 20, and Kristen Leann
Price, 18, as accessories after the fact
for helping the men dispose of their
bloody clothes. The women reported
the men to the police and said
Henderson and McKinney made anti-
gay remarks about Shepard.

A According to The Denver Post,
both McKinney’s father and Price said
Henderson and McKinney never set
out to nearly kill Shepard, but
McKinney was embarrassed that

See VICTIM, Page 2

More alcohol-related offenses
cause increased LPD action

by Eszter Pados

STA FF WRITER

Washington and Lee University
social functions keep Washington and
Lee Security and the Lexington Police
Department on their toes due to a sig-
niﬁcant increase in alcohol-related mis-
demeanors among students.

Just during Homecoming Weekend,
14 students were arrested for alcohol
related misdemeanors, a much higher
number compared with regular week-
ends.

Returning alumni have contributed
to the problem in the past. This year,
they kept quiet. “Things have
changed in the past ﬁve years,” Chief
Bruce Beard of the Lexington police
department said. “Ten years ago,
alumni came back wild and crazy. But
fortunately things have mellowed out
in the past ﬁve years.”

According to Beard, there weren’t
any alumni arrested this year.

Students, on the other hand, con-
tinue to cause problems.

Five of the 14 arrests were for un-
derage possession of alcohol, a class
three misdemeanor. Three students
were arrested for selling alcohol to in-
dividuals under 21, a class 1 misde-
meanor. Two students were caught
drinking in public, a class four misde-
meanor. Only one student was caught
drunk in public, a class four misde-

CC

meanor, and three Washington and Lee
men were arrested for urinating in pub-
lie on Main street, a class 1 misde-
meanor, also classiﬁed as indecent ex-
posure.

Police officers and Washington and
Lee security are aware of the nature of
big functions like Homecoming.

“We know ahead of time when func-
tions like Homecoming are,” Beard
said. “We schedule more officers to
work these weekends.” 1

Mike Young, Director of Washing-
ton and Lee Security, said that these

 

We know . . . when
functions like Home-
coming are. We sched-
ule more officers . . .

these weekends.
——Chief Bruce Beard

 

events attract a lot of people. ‘Most of
the time, there are a lot of people who
are not part of the Washington and
Lee community.

“More people are involved, there-
fore there is more crime,” Young said.
“More people means more opportu-
nity.”

In addition to police officers and

99

security personnel controlling the area,
four Alcohol Beverage Control agents
were in town last weekend. Accord-
ing to Beard, the agents want to pre-
vent alcohol violations. They mostly
check stores and restaurants where
alcohol is sold. On occasions like
Homecoming Weekend, a lot of alco-
hol is sold to underage students.

Beard said that selling alcohol to
underage individuals has one of the
most serious consequences from all
other alcohol violations. It is a class
one misdemeanor.

“Consequences can be as serious
as confinement in jail for up to 12
months or a ﬁne up to $2,500, or both
penalties,” Beard said.

Bear_d said that Alumni Weekend
is the social function that causes the
most problems. Young begs to dif-
fer.

“I think Fancy Dress is deﬁnitely
the most extraordinary, in terms of
crime,” Young said. ‘‘It’s like a three-
day drunk[fest], people are just out
ofcontrol.”

“Several years ago, Washington
and Lee had a rash of thefts over
Fancy Dress. Considering the num-
ber of guests from outside the com-
munity, who are not bound by the
honor code, crime rates took a leap,”
Young said.

See ALUMNI, Page 2

250*“ video to be beamed to

by Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

As Washington and Lee University
gears up to celebrate its 250*‘ anniver-
sary, ﬁlm crews are descending upon
the stately campus. . g

“60 Minutes?” “20/20?” Maybe
“Politically Incorrect?” Are national
media sitting up and taking notice of
the bicenquinquagenary‘?

Not just yet. The ﬁlm crews belong
to Golden Dome Productions, and
they have been assembling footage for
a special 250‘*‘ video since March.

“There are a variety of elements in
the video,” said Neil Penick, Director
of the 250"‘ Celebration. “There are
short video clips on the Honor Sys-
tem, the Law School, W&L today, stu-
dent life and the 250"‘ celebration in
review.”

The idea came when W&L admin-
istrators saw a similar video that was
done by Golden Dome for Notre Dame
University. Arrangements were made,
and crews began ﬁlming at the 1998
Fancy Dress Ball, the so-called “col—

- lege social event ofthe South.”

Since then. the crews have been
ﬁlming continually on campus, accord-
ing to Louise Uffelman, a communica-

tions writer in the W&L News Ofﬁce.

“The idea is to ﬁlm every aspect of
campus life that we can,” Uffelman
said. This includes various special
events such as the 250'“ kickoff Open-
ing Convocation, the Rededication of
Lee Chapel, the Bicenquinquagenary
Ball, the London Hampton Court
event, various speeches and lectures,
the symbolic repayment at Mount
Vernon of the endowment given by
George Washington, and the Respon-
sibility Symposium.

The video’s expected audience
might be a little different than one
might think.

Rather than simply making the end-
product available for sale, on May 1,
1999, the designated National Day of
Celebration, segments of the video will
be broadcast via satellite to more than
50 alumni chapters across the coun-
try. The satellite uplink will also fea-
ture a live show, hosted by Roger
Mudd ’50 and Cecily Tynan Badger
’9l from the Lenfest Center and a
tent from the Liberty Hall Ruins.

“It’s going to be the largest alumni
gathering in history,” Penick said.
“We’re expecting about 3,000 alumni
on campus, and another 3,000 in indi-
vidual chapters connected by satellite.”

alumni chapters via satellite

The gathering will be the culmina-
tion of a yearlong celebration.

“This is truly a special year,” Presi-
dent John Elrod said. “It is remarkable
to think that we are one of the oldest
institutions in America and even more
remarkable to think that we are older
than America herself.”

Along with special events, how-
ever, Golden Dome crews have also
been ﬁlming everyday aspects of stu-
dent life. That means that shots of stu-
dents dissecting laboratory animals,
doing differential calculus equations,
speaking foreign languages and toss-
ing frisbee on the historic Front Lawn
will also be included in the video.

“Basically it’s geared toward ev-
erybody in the W&L community, but
particularly those who can’t make it
back to Lexington for the event,”
Penick said. -

According to Uffelman, the video
has been budgeted as part of the 250"‘
Observance. Penick says the project
is costing about $85,000. And by the
sound of it, the show should be well
worth it.

“We want to make the show enter-
taining, upbeat and celebratory -
show who we are and what we do
well,” said Penick.

W&LIFE: CAMPUS NUTRITION
Roman Koshkin works out regularly in
the weight room to keep in shape.

OPINION:

PAGE 3

SPORTS:

 

continues

Ellie ﬁling-tum iﬂlii

October“ 12, 1998

Incompetence at computer HelpDesk,
dishonorable Bookstore and
Clinton’s troubles

W&L1FE:

Watching your nutrition, excercise on
campus and warnings about antibiotics
PAGES4&5 ‘

Men’s soccer upsets, women’s soccer
drops ﬁrst and football’s losing streak

PAGES 6&7

 

PAGE 2

 

NEWS

OCTOBER 12, 1998

New bills increase
financial aid costs

Changes will affect many, aid programs

by Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

The newly,-signed Higher Educa-
tion Amendments of 1998 could have
a signiﬁcant impact on the way col-
lege students do business with their
ﬁnancial aid offices.
Though President Clinton’s signa-
ture is barely dry, the amendments,
3 which reauthorize the Higher Educa-
‘ tion Act of 1965, already promise to
affect several federal loan and ﬁnan-
cial aid programs.

“Obviously I think that’s great be-
cause I have loans, and it’s going to
make it a lot easier for people who
wouldn’t otherwise have the oppor-
tunity to continue their education,”
said sophomore Shani Lee.

The legislation includes substan-
tial raises in federal Pell Grants, which
will now be capped at $4,500 begin-
ning with the 1999-2000 academic year.
The new maximum climbs $300 each
year until 2003, when it will reach
$5,800.

Also included is an increase in the
loan limits for Perkins loans, which will
now be set at $4,000 for undergradu-
ates and $6,000 for graduate and pro-
fessional students. Another important
aspect of federal aid, the Unsubsidized
and Subsidized Stafford loans, will see
significant drops in interest rates
charged to students. Whereas both
loans are currently capped at 8 per-
cent interest, new rates will be set at
the equivalent of the 90-day Treasury
bill rate plus 1.7 percent while in school
and 2.3 percent thereaﬁer.

The changes in federal policy come
‘~ on the heels of a recently-released

5 study conducted by student loan pro-

' vider Nellie Mae concerning the con-

~ sequences of undergraduate and
graduate loans.

_r«. 041 A-vna‘ . .. w -'- «- -, ,- an 7:V‘<&‘b a.'\4«"\‘:.’bEo'-.“:.-‘h"vnI*h"u‘nt‘(‘n”‘df-8‘.ﬁl?‘&nt<1.V%'i‘4'c§y

Nellie Mae found ‘that ‘approxi-'1 - 1

7- mately 25 percent of all recent private

'-‘ college graduates, as well as 18 per-

.1 cent of public college graduates, have

2- loans surpassing their present annual
earnings. In addition, 12 percent of all

,. graduates have monthly loan pay-
ments that surpass 20 percent of their
monthly income.

. “While most students are able to
repay their loans successfully without
significant impact on their lifestyle,
that number is getting smaller over
time,” said Lawrence O’Toole, presi-
dent and chief executive officer of
Nellie Mae. “It’s important that stu-
dents consider the salary potential of
a chosen career early on so there’s a
strong likelihood that the salary will
support repayment after graduation.”

According to the study, the aver-
age student loan debt has increased
from $8,200 in 1991 to $13,800 in 1997.
The average debt accumulated for
four-year private school students was
$15,300, while for public school the
total was $10,900.

“Our survey confirmed what many

have suspected. While student loans
have helped millions of students gain
access to a post-secondary education,
higher debt, incurred from borrowing
to cover the cost of college, is becom-
ing more of a burden to some stu-
dents,” O’Toole said.

Even Washington and Lee, which
prides itself on keeping tuition low
through a sizeable endowment, has
raised tuition appreciably in past

9 years. The 1998-99 academic year saw

an increase of $400.

According to O’Toole, more than
half of all college students now finance
their education at least in part through
loans.

“If you work (academically)
through high school, you shouldn’t
be penalized because you don’t have
money,” said Lee. “Loans and ﬁnan-
cial aid should be available to those
people.”

The numbers back him up. The
study showed that an overwhelming
79 percent of undergraduate borrow-
ers said that student loans were very
or extremely important in allowing them
to continue their education. And very
soon, this crucial part could be com-
ing at a slightly less dear cost.

What do you
think?

phi@wlu.edu

1 1 24 S. Jefferson Street   l
mmnnmn

, Between The Palms
& Domino's Pizza

 

B

     
 

  

ALUMNI

continued from page 1

“People stole from dorms,” Young
said, “people who didn’t belong.”

Young and Beard agree that Par-
ents Weekend is the event that causes
the least uproar.

“Parents Weekend is a very
pleasant event, it’s generally mel-
low” Young said. “We like it! Al-
though some parents were caught
drunk in the past.”

Beard and Young both said that on
event-weekends such as Homecoming
Weekend, they may take it easy on
people who are not causing serious
problems.

“To avcertain degree, we overlook
parking violations,” Beard said, “un-
less it’s a danger to the public.”

Beard said that it is hard to control
parking, because there are so many
people in town, and not enough park-
ing spaces. As long as the ‘illegally
parked car is not interfering with other
traffic regulations, the owner will not
be punished. '

According to Young, if someone is
not causing problems and not drawing
attention, he or she may sail through.

“But if one is out of control, and
drawing attention, we have to deal
with him or her,” Young said.

So far, the police department and
security have managed to keep things
under control with their cooperation
with each other.

“Security is of tremendous help to
us,” Beard said.

While security patrolled fraternity
houses, police ofﬁcers dealt with the
streets.

“Together we have been keeping

usic

Open l0ia.m. ‘til 9p.m.

464-4050

we FlND IT FOR
LOW STPRCE

I  _
  Come see the photographs of W&L alumnus C. Taylor Crothers.
- A special gallery has been set up in the Night Owl store. ’
 Admission is free, but the exhibit is this week only. So hurry!

They really exist!

During VMI’s recent defeat, the female members of the Virginia Military Institute
cheerleading squad try to keep up the crowd’s spirits.

Photo by Christie Phillips/Photo Editor

things under control,” Beard said.
“But it’s always hard to predict what
will happen during the next event.”

VICTIM

continued from page 1

Shepard ﬂirted with him in front of his
friends.

People across the country have
condemned this as a hate crime. Presi-

dent Clinton made a statement saying
he was “deeply grieved by the act of
violence . . . Hillary and I ask that your
thoughts and prayers be with Mr.
Shepard and his family and with the
people of Laramie.”

House Minority Leader Richard
Gephardt (D—Mo.) said that “this hei-
nous crime deserves the condemna-
tion ofall Americans.”

The leader of G&L, Washington and

Lee’s gay and lesbian organization’

does not think this sort of hate crime
could ever happen at W&L. “People
here are so into being socially polite
that I don’t particularly think this could
happen here,” president Jessica ,
Simpson said. “1 don’t understand how
ignorance could lead to something like
that. lt’s almost incomprehensible.

“To do something like this you’d
have to belittle someone to the point
of not even acknowledging them as a
human being,” she added.

Co.

 

Monday-lnday
ll ain. - 5 pm.
Saturday

 Write for the Phi.
’ Tuesday, 7:30 p.m.
Room 208

v _"‘ nu,‘ ', ‘.1’. 
l!4l.*tlW:)9.lW(6.s “

‘3‘;~‘.I“.'.“$"‘.*f.- §“.‘*.“a‘ 3*“ ’ °~ ‘ ' "‘

§|lI'llIQ Bfﬂﬂll '99

Sell mils. Earn cash

& 00 I700 '"

SIS is now hiring oamnus

4' IIIWBSI I'ﬂIBS III Jamaica.
M91110!) 8. Florida

oy

Dealer

RDSENCRANTZ
AND I
GUILDENSTERN
ARE
DEAD
to

Tom Stoppard

directed by
Al Gordon

  
   

October 23, 24 8C 26, 1998 0 8:00 PM
October 25, 1998 0 2:00 PM
Keller Theatre 0 Lenfest Center

*. . ‘-

on comparison of ‘99 A

 M A.) OK

      .    5 time
1Eq“1PPed. 99 C°‘°  
 can Get A W61 M--. ....-  

Less Than 1_ast"'Year'A)l

I

ll

Corolla with options 1

1-300-643-4349 or
WWW.SlSII'ﬂllB|.I§0l|l

oro a - *~   W W M M W  1
worldglest car in history, basid Olll    ., .  . ﬁg‘
° ,_,..M{No~-Matter'Wl13t" ° ‘,3’

WM'___MﬁW_,,,.,

.....»«-—-«V-"

.1’

 

.........,....OPINION-EDITORIAL 

Does Bookstore

respect Honor
System?

One of the major features that attracts men and women
from across the country (especially Texas) to the “grand
old school of the south” is the honor system at Washing-
ton and Lee. Both inside and outside the classroom the
rewards of the honor system are immeasurable. W&L stu-
dents take pride in upholding the beliefs that our honor
system represents.

There is, however, one institution at our school that
does not take us at our word — the University Bookstore.
Beginning this fall, the bookstore began to enforce a strict
policy that requires anyone who wishes to return a book
purchased at the bookstore to present a receipt. We all
know how easy it can be to buy the wrong book for a
class or buy two copies of the same book because they
have different cover designs. Many of us have had to
return a whole set of books because we decide that we
have gotten in a little over our heads and need to drop a
class. We also all share the experience of losing our re-
ceipt.

if this happened in past years, it was no big deal. The
person behind the counter would give you the refund, no
questions asked. But if you tried to return a book this past
fall without that golden ticket, you were out of luck —— no
soup for you. '

For those of you who need your memories refreshed,
the Honor System makes_it clear that there is no lying,
cheating or stealing at Washington and Lee University.
Returning a book that you did not actually purchase at
the bookstore would be lying and stealing, and W&L stu-
dents have pledged not to do these things. Students
should be given a refund if they pledge to have bought it
at the bookstore.

Regardless of the honor system, let’s stop and think
about this for a minute. I think it is safe to say that the
average W&L student is fairly intelligent, although as
with anything there are always some exceptions. Retum—
ing something to the bookstore that you did not buy is
not the smartest thing to do. The bookstore does tag all
the books that it sells both manually and electronicly, and
you would have a difﬁcult time getting around these ob-
stacles. There are easier ways for a criminal to make a
proﬁt. ,

Now I could understand that the bookstore might be
doing this for logistical purposes. They might want to

_- keep an accurate record -of all purchases and returns so

they want their receipts. But come on, they have comput-
ers that register every purchase. If this is the only reason,
come on bookstore people, give us a break. Not all of us
have rich parents and brand new SUVs.

Some of us are paying our own way, and I think we
should be allowed to lose a receipt and still return a book
instead of having to swallow a thirty-dollar mistake. And
if the bookstore thinks we are lying, than what good is the
Honor System anyway? lt’s time for the bookstore to
join the rest of the campus and take students at their
word. Professors do it, the administration does it, the
dining hall does it and we the students do it. Why not
the bookstore too?

@112 iliing-tum iﬂlti

Executive Editors Torah Grant
Hollister Hovey
Polly Doig

John Stewart
Ginger Phillips
Erica Prosser
Stephen Pesce
Frances Groberg
Brendan Harrington
Kevin McManernin
Sarah Meldrum
Meredith Mlynar
Mike Crittenden
Christie Phillips
Tom Wadlow

News Editors
W&Lg'fe Editors

Opinion & Editorial Editor
Sports Editors

Last Word Editor
Copy Editors

Photo Editors
Online Editor

Business Manager
Advertising Directors

Jason Williams
John Costello
Matt Lorber

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor and Business Manager, but
The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “Talkback” do not
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu -
hltp://wlu. edu/~phi
Annual subsription rate: S30

Ii

"‘*{:u0te of the week:

A lot of these guys could
have played Division I, but
instead they came here so

they could party.

— Anonymous lacrosse player’ s father

House puts Clinton closer to what he deserves

So it appears that good ole Bill Clinton is one step
closer to getting the ax. The House voted last week to
begin an impeachment inquiry. The
258-176 vote in the House was
largely along party lines with only
3 1 Democrats bucking the tide to be-
gin hearings. House Judiciary Chair-
man Henry Hyde led the charge
against the President and was successful in gaining
the support of every single Republican in the House.

The proceedings will not begin until after the No-
vember 3rd elections; they are waiting in order to better
gauge what the public wants. If the trend is toward

greater Republi-

‘ ( can numbers, it
is clear that the

hearings will
bring much
stronger results.

Most of the
31 brave, just
Democrats are
coming up for
election ,next
month and must
realize that they
cannot blatantly
ignore such ob-

I do not understand
‘ how Clinton has been
able to manipulate so
many people, namely
his wife and his party,
into following him. Do
they not realize the true
scum that he is?
7 7 vious wrongdo-
ing; the citizens,

the voters will not stand for it. Another six congress-
men strategically chose to miss the vote that day, and
you can be sure they had something more important to
be doing. But who can blame them, they show up to
vote their conscience and they become ostracized by
their party; if I were them I would say that haircut could
not wait another day.

It is somewhat disgusting how partisan thisscandal
has become. Luckily, however, the correct party has the
majority and justice just might be served. We all know
President Clinton is too power hungry to resign. He did
not admit to the affair with Lewinsky until there was
irrefutable DNA evidence. He is not going to resign
until he thinks there is no chance he will get off. Let’s
all hope that it will come to that, but then again that will lead
to President Al Gore, it doesn’t get much scarier than that.

“Everything, because the D-Hall is
w  -9!

—-Matt Gooch ’0l

 Juaplammghr   s

.3" Jean Rowan _’01

We just can’t win, maybe we should blame this all on

the people who voted for Clinton in the first place. And

. while we’re at it, Hillary Clinton isnot
exactly a pillar of the community.
She. is to blame as well. For

up for Women’s Rights, why in the
world is she still married to such

an abuser of women?

She has no respect for herself or for her daughter.

Hillary is even more power hungry than Bill and it is

someone who pretends to stand ‘

going to backﬁre on her. The decision to stand up for
her husband rather than stand up for herself will hurt
her in the long run, even if she does eventually ditch
the cheating scoundrel. Her loyalty is more or less ri-
diculous.

l do not understand how Clinton has been able to
manipulate so many people, namely his wife and his
party, into following him. Do they not realize the true
scum that he is? Maybe we will be lucky enough to see
a president impeached, it could not happen to a more
worthy fellow.

in H

“Salisbury .Steak..”

—.lerryGut1ben’02

“The ice cream novelties.”

—CliffCislak ‘O2

“What’s a D-Hall?”

-—Kirby Eight (Perspective)

PAGE 4

 

  W&L1FE

  

OCTOBER 12, 1998

Campus nutrition: Who is eating Well at W&L?

by Elianna Marziani
STAFF WRITER

“The salad’s not too fried.”

“The reason why freshmen drink so much is they aren’t
getting their nutrition from the D-hall, so they have to
look other places.”

Jokes and remarks such as these, made by freshman
Chris Hagan and sophomore Tim Koss respectively, are
often heard at meals in the Evans Dining Hall. Whether
people say them merely to have something to discuss at
meals other than how they just bombed their history
test or ifthey are being serious is anyone’s guess.

Remarks such as these, however, do cause people to
wonder just how healthy the D-hall and the students
who eat in it actually are.

Some of the biggest complaints made about D-hall
food are that it is too fried, does not have enough fruits
and vegetables and is not healthy overall.

“There’s just so much glop,” sophomore Chris
Kauffman said, asserting that he “definitely [eats] more
healthily” now that he is no longer on the freshman
meal plan and only eats in the D-hall four times each
week.

Freshman Elizabeth Thomas said, “While it’s decent
for the most part, there is a lot of fried food, and there
should be more fresh vegetables and fresh fruit rather
than corn all the time.”

Almost everyone interviewed agreed that there was a
lot of fried food and not enough good-tasting, fresh veg-
etables. Sophomore Christina Julian said that while she
likes the D-hall food, she is eating more healthily now
that she is not on the freshman meal plan.

“Ifyou’re going for health, it’s not very good. But if
you don’t care, it tastes good. Their desserts are awe-
some,” freshman Jay Campbell said.

Adam K. Bradberry, the cook for all vegetarian items
in the D-hall, said that the D-hall “has its ups and downs.”
He explained that the D-hall always uses sanitary, healthy
methods of cooking the food and tries to cut down on
grease.

While Bradberry agrees that there is a lot of butter
and cream in some D-hall foods, he reminds students
that there are also foods such as the ﬁve vegetarian dishes
located at the end of the line, dishes that he makes with
no butter and very little cream.

Bradberry said that he tries to reduce the fat in the
foods he cooks by using low or no fat substitutes for
items required in his recipes. He added that 90 percent of
the vegetables in the D-hall have not been seasoned with
anything except “a little salt, a little pepper and only
enough butter to cook with, to cover the bottom of the
pan.” Bradberry believes that the D-hall offers enough
selection for students to eat healthily, if they so choose.

Perhaps one of the biggest problems, however, is not
with D-hall food, but with the students themselves. Dwight
Bitz, manager of the Evans Dining Hall, believes that stu-
dents do not always want to eat healthily. While stu-
dents complain about all the grease, whenever the D-hall
cuts back on fried food, it gets comment cards asking for
more of it.

Out of the 27 comment cards representing two weeks
worth of student feedback to the D-hall, I5 ofthem re-

, quested fried foods such as french fries, chicken pop-
‘ pers and onion rings. Another request was for cinnamon

butter, which is not exactly a Healthy Choice Award prod-

' uct.

Bradberry agreed that students do not always make
healthy choices, and he estimated that only one-third of

: diners make healthy choices about their meals. Like Bitz,
he noted the contrast between what students request

. unhealthy eating habits, but they think that the D-hall could

 

Photo by Hollister Hovey/Executive Editor
Students enjoy brunch at Evans Dining Hall, but others wonder how healthy the food choices are.
and what they eat: while they request healthy food, the
items that the D-hall staff ﬁnd are the most popular are
those such as cheese sticks and onion rings.

He suggestedthat both a gender and a class division
exist in this matter.

“Mostly females eat much healthier than males do,”

Julian asserted that it would have been healthier for her
last year if she could have taken-food out of the D-hall.
Then when she got hungry for a snack, she could have

packaged food was around in her dorm.

eaten something healthy instead of whatever unhealthy,

Almost all the students interviewed agreed, pointing out.

that they were paying for the food anyway. The most com-
monly requested take-out food was fmit, followed by ba-
gels. There appears to be room for compromise on this
issue, however.

“If you’re eating one bagel or a piece of fruit or ice
cream cone, we don’t disapprove of that at all,” Bitz said.
“Wejust don’t want people stocking up.”

Basically the D-halljust does not want people making
it their supermarket. Fair enough. As to the other issues,
the comment cards are on the table by the main entrance
to the D-hall. Perhaps if enough students .request these
healthy items, some kind of arrangement can be made to
satisfy everyone.

While students always have complained and always
will complain about D-hall food, the situation is not too
bad. The staff is much more talented than many other
colleges can boast, with chef Greg Pearce, head of the
National Association of Colleges and Universities’ Food
Services, and his culinary colleagues the products of many
years of experience.

Perhaps more importantly, the staff is accommodating
and truly wants to make life better for W&L students.
While the D-hall is not the model for health and nutrition

centers in the Western Hemisphere, neither is it the mess

hall from hell. With a little work on both sides, the W&L
community can become a very healthy one.

If more students choose healthier meals, and the D-
hall tries to make the healthy foods taste a little better
without compromising their nutritional value, maybe W&L
will become an example for those health and nutrition
centers after all.

At least it would be one more step to ensuring that
W&L will still have the happiest student body for years
to come.

Bradberry said. “Also, this freshman class doesn’t seem to
eat half as healthy as the previous one.”

Bitz and Bradberry both explained that there are many
healthy options available to students if they choose to em-,
ploy them. The D-hall has tried to cut down on fried food,
revamping 50 to 60 percent of its menu away from deep fried
food into baked or broiled food during the past two years.
The deli bar, which serves lean meats, is open during lunch
on Monday, Wednesday and Friday.

The salad bar is also open and at the students’ disposal.
At lunch and dinner there are five vegetarian, low-fat dishes
available at the end ofthe line, and the D-hall offers at least
three fresh fruits and vegetables at every meal, along with
canned fruits. It bakes 90 percent of its bread in its own
bakery, and it offers low-fat and skim milk at every meal. It
offers non—fat frozen yogurt and sugar-free Jell-O as healthier
dessert options.

Also, Bitz stressed that he takes students’ comments
very seriously and tries to accommodate them whenever
possible. He said that the D-hall is completely receptive to
students’ needs, willing to accommodate them for allergies
and kosher foods and ready to offer them boxed lunch op-
tions for when they have to miss a meal due to a class
schedule conﬂict. Bitz believes that the D-hall is “certainly
up there with the best of them” when it comes to offering
healthy meal options to students.

Some students recognize and appreciate the D—hall’s at-
tempt to offer healthy food.

Freshman Kristen Bonnema thinks that she eats more
healthily here than she did at home, saying, “I generally get
vegetables and balanced meals here, which I didn’t at home.”

Many students take some responsibility for their often

I A cold, as most of us know from experience, usually
produces a clear nasal discharge. But it’s quite common
for the discharge to thicken and look greenish, and this

s symptom sends a lot of cold sufferers to their doctors to
ask for antibiotics.

In fact, a greenish secre-
tion is nothing to worry about
and, in itself, does not call for
antibiotics. Colds and ﬂu are
caused by viruses, and anti-
biotics cannot kill’ viruses,
only bacteria.

A recent survey showed
that an astonishing 60 per-
cent of all patients seen in pri— » 
mary care for the common
cold were given a prescrip-
tion for antibiotics. This is
not only a waste of money
and resources, it increases
the likelihood that bacterial
strains will develop antibiotic
resistance. Thus when you
really need antibiotics, they
might not work. And taking
antibiotics is hardly a picnic
-— you’re at risk for side ef-
fects. '

Studies years ago showed
that greenish discharges in
the course of the common

help them out still more. Some ofthe biggest requests stu-
dents made were for more and better vegetables, 24-hour
accessible juice and/or other drink machines and the per-
mission to take food out ofthe D-hall.

Despite the academic and social time constraints
that come along with being a Washington and Lee
student, many undergraduates are ﬁnding the time to
exercise. ‘

“I think that it’s really important to work out on a
regular basis,” sophomore Mary Beth Brookby said.
“Staying ﬁt helps you to maintain your body’s basic
health, and it’s a great outlet for releasing stress.”

From the multi-million dollar Duchossois Tennis
Center to Wilson Field, W&L provides a wide variety

We are here to pump you up

cold were caused by the vi-
rus, not by invading bacte-
ria. A recent study in Clinical Infectious Diseases cast
more light on how viruses work in your upper respira-
tory tract. The symptoms you experience, including na-
sal secretions, are not the work of viruses, but of your
own immune system responding to the virus.
Scientists used to think that viruses infecting the

Cautions for upcoming cold season

Antibiotics not always key to curing common cold woes

Photo by Chnstre l”hllllpSll)ll0C0‘ Editor
Nurse Jane Wheeling gives a’ flu shot to
sophomore Laura Schramm .

nasal passage destroyed nasal cells, but this is not
the case. Cold viruses provoke a massive immune re-
sponse (sneezing, inﬂammation, secretions and so
forth), including an increase in certain types of im-
' c ‘mune cells that, in the
course of your recovery,
may add yellow or greenish
color to the discharge.
I If you develop complica-
‘ tions with your cold or ﬂu,
~*such asbronchitis or an ear
I r or sinus infection, you’lI Z
Vneed antibiotics if these
prove to be bacterial. Doc-
tors should not prescribe
antibiotics “just in case,”
but should diagnose a bac-
» V terial infection before pre-
scribing.
' .If'yourifever,lasts more
than a few days-and you .
have a continuing produc-
, tive cough or worsening ear
pain, if would make sense
to return for a Iook—see. But
if you call your doctor
about a cold or flu, you
should. decline antibiotics
that are offered casually “to
be on the safe side.”
Bottom line: Chicken
soup, hot tea, aspirin, ﬂu-
. ids and saltwater gargles
may not be high-tech, but they are much more effec-
tive against cold and ﬂu symptoms than antibiotics
you don’t need.
—— from The University of Califor-
nia, Berkeley Wellness Letter, October 1998, provided
by the Washington & Lee Student Health Center

by Ginger Phillips

F EA TURES EDITOR

Alcohol, drugs, nutrition, exercise, sexually transmit-
ted diseases, contraception, stress, sexual assault...

Chances are that there is a lot that you don’t know about
some of these issues. Perhaps you have a question about
alcohol or drugs that you’ve never asked because you were
afraid of being embarrassed. Maybe you’d like to know
more about the symptoms of sexually transmitted
diseases, but you didn’t know whom to ask
and wouldn’t be caught dead doing STD
research in Leyburn Library.

There is someone on campus who
can help. In fact, there aremore than
70 people who are well qualified to
answer your questions on these is-
sues and more. They are the members
of LIFE, an acronym that stands for
Lifestyle Information for Everyone.
LIFE is an organization of students

Photo by Hollister Hovey/Executive Editor

 
  

ofathletic facilities for its students. While many ofthese
facilities can be considered state of the art, some stu-
dents feel that others need, to be updated.

Sophomore Mike Holmes, shown above, and many
other students work out in the weight room in the Warner
Center. Facilities like this one and the one in Gaines Hall
have resulted in many complaints from students who
would like to beneﬁt from newer and better equipment.

“The weight rooms are adequate, but they could deﬁ-
nitely use some improvement,” Brookby said.

dedicated to promoting healthy lifestyles
among W&L students.

“LIFE is very active on campus, and I think
that it is a really important group because LIFE provides
students with information that they can use to make healthy
decisions in their lives,” sophomore LIFE member Martha
Cornbrooks said. Often students ﬁnd it more difﬁcult to
maintain a healthy lifestyle in college because ofthe many
unhealthy obstacles that the average college student must
face.

“There are a lot of issues that face students as they

 

Making LIFE a little better at W&L ~

come to college. Most W&L students are very stressed,
and that doesn’t leave"much time for healthy eating and
exercise,”junior Anna Parris, president ofLlFE, said. “A
lot of people tum to alcohol as a release and a diversion from
their worries. This is why it is important for an organization
like LIFE to encourage responsible, healthy behavior.”

LIFE membership has steadily increased during the past
few years, and prospective members must undergo at least
twenty hours of training in a wide range of health related topics.

"I really value that a large portion of the student

body is trained to deal with such a variety of

issues,” Parris said. “Students can go to

a LIFE member for advice on a very

informal basis so that they will not
feel uncomfortable.”

LIFE has already planned
many campus activities for this year.
Freshmen had their ﬁrst encounter

with LIFE during Freshman Orienta-
tion, when LIFE sponsored a speaker
and group discussions among LIFE
members, dorm counselors and freshmen.

The Controlled Drinking Experiment will be
conducted by LIFE members and Peer Counse-
lors on October 19. The organization will also sponsor a
speaker later this month in commemoration of National Sexual
Assault Awareness Month, and the AIDS quilt will be on
campus for World AIDS Day in December.

“We are trying to be very involved in campus life and
to make ourselves visible,” Parris said. “When people are
in precarious situations, or iftheyjust need advice, we try
to be available for them.” ‘

 

 

  

)1

OCTOBER 12, 1998

PAGE 5

“Life in a box is better than no life at all, I expect. You ’a’ have a chance, at
least. You could lie there thinking, ‘Well.-At least I ’m not dead. 

—from “Rosencrantz and Guildenstem are Dead”

\

Leshner, Armstrong decide it ’s better ‘not to be’

by Tarah Grant

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

eniors T.W. Leshner and Wes Armstrong are best
friends both on and off the stage.

They have been friends for four years and roommates
for two, and next weekend they will be co-stars in their
senior thesis project: “Rosencrantz and Guildenstem are
Dead,” a play about two best friends.

Armstrong thinks that the parallels between the two
sets of friends beneﬁt the production. “The characters
have to act like best friends,” Armstrong said. ‘‘It helps
when the actors are like that anyway.” .

Rosencrantz and Guildenstem are collegnchums of
'Hamlet. As the action of Wi1l_ia;g§hakespeare’s “Ham-
let” swirls about them, Rosencrantz and Guildenstem have
time “off stage” to ponder their situation, the meaning

Rosencrantz  

  Guildenstem
D e a cl

a r e

their lives and what their names are. Filling their time ABOVE; iv
with sprightly dialogue and absurd word games, Gui1denstem(T_w_
Rosencrantz and Guildenstem wonder if they are not part Leshner) and
ofthe action, are they then merely marginal players with Rosencrantz (Wes

no real purpose?

Stuck in an existential groove and unable to change
the script in which they barely play a part, the friends
ﬁnd that “their only exit is death.”

Playwright Tom Stoppard wrote “Rosencrantz and

Armstrong) are minor

characters in
Shakespeare’s Hamlet,
but in Stoppard’s play

7

Guildenstem are Dead” more than 30 years ago, but di— they re the S,tarS'
rector Al Gordon considers it to be a timeless piece. , R_I(_'HT:
“‘Rosencrantz and Guildenstem’ answers the tough, Franc'S_ Mc_W'"'amS’
modern questions about personal integrity and commit- Syb” Prince’ Josh
merit,” Gordon said, “but at the same time, it offers a Chambe”ai“’Rya“
LaRue and Kathie

thoughtful and touching portrait of friendship and the
human condition.”

Performances will be on Oct. 23, 24 and 26 at 8 p.m.
and Oct. 25 at 2 p.m. in the Lenfest Center’s Keller
Theatre.

Soroka solicite them-
selves in a medieval
theater troupes’ sex

show.  _, ,_
Photo counesy 0 Susan Wager

Photo courtesy of Susan \Vager

    

Bicenquinquagerary
Bulletin
provided by the 250"’ Nostalgia Sub-Committee

Often referred to as the “Shrine of the
South,” Lee Chapel was built in 1867 soon
after the arrival of General Lee.

General Lee realized it was difﬁcult to
gather the entire student body at once and
proposed the construction of a building
the campus lacked, a chapel. Contrary to
popular belief that Lee designed the build-
ing, Lee Chapel was designed by Thomas
H. Williamson, an engineering professor
at VMI. For many years the chapel was
the site of Baccalaureate and Commence-
ment ceremonies for graduating classes.

Nothing puts careers ahead like

 

pace-setting success. And as a leading
ﬁnancial services corporation, First "
Union is merging the best in D O N ’ T
professional brokerage, mortgage, _ __

banking and IT career opportu- I '
nities with a personal approach-
abiliry that can only be found
here. By placing such a high
value on personal as well as
professional needs, were
creating wide-open prospects
for others which ultimately
yield our success. That’s just

one of the reasons that more
and more. grads are ﬁnding
the green light at First Union.
Want to put your career into
high gear? We will be inter-
viewing on campus October
21st. Stop by your Career
Center for details. Or mail
your resume to: First Union
Corporation, Attn: Corporate
College Relations, Job Number:
CCR—WAL, 1525 West WT Harris
Blvd., Charlotte, NC 28288-0970; or
e-mail to: jobs@ﬁ1stunion.oom

 

Solution to crossword
puzzle on page 8

SPRING BREAK Cancun, Florida, Etc. ,
’ Best Hotels, Parties, Prices.
Book Early and Save!

Eam Money & Free Trips!
Campus Reps I Organizations wanted
Inter-Campus Programs
‘I-800-327-6013 www.lcpt.corn

 

W&L REPAYS GEORGE WASHINGTON

A spectacular ﬁreworks show over the Potomac River, an appearance by
George Washington and a unique and historic gift presentation will highlight a
special evening at Mount Vernon on Saturday.

As part of W&L’s 250‘“ celebration, a check for $50,000 will be presented
to Mount Vernon as a symbolic repayment for a similar gift that George Wash-
ington gave the school more than 200 years ago.

The black—tie affair will take place on the lawn at Mount Vernon begin-
ning at 6 p.m. and will be hosted by Roger Muss ’50. The $250 per couple
ticket price includes a candle—lit tour of Mount Vernon with George Wash-
ington impersonator William Sommerfield, a reception and dinner.

After dinner, Elizabeth Formidoni, president of the W&L Student Ex-
ecutive Committee, will present the check to Mrs. Robert E. Lee IV, re-
gent of the Mount Vernon Ladies Association.

FILM SOCIETY CELEBRATES GYPSY MUSIC

The next presentation of the Washington and Lee Film Society will be a
documentary of Gypsy music, “Latcho Drom” (France, 1994), directed by Tony
Gatlif.

Screenings will be at 7:30 p.m. on Friday and Saturday in the Troubadour
Cinema. As always, there is no charge for admission, although contributions
are welcome. This ﬁlm is in Romany and French, with English subtitles.

For centuries the Gypsies have traveled the world, taking with them only
what they could carry on their backs. But by the end of “Latcho Drom,” a
visually and musically arresting tribute to Gypsy culture, you may feel as if
you’ve walked every single mile with them.

Plotless and without dialogue, the ﬁlm traces Gypsy music back through‘
all its origins and permutations. The movie shows Gypsies as a scorned people
who are run out ofpastures and apartments as undesirables. For many ofthem,
music is their one true resource. Passed on from generation to generation,
their songs function as a sort of folk history.

Ageless and at the same time flexible enough to include comment on re-
cent politics (as one Romanian ballad about Ceaucescu illustrates), the music
changes with each country, along with the styles ofthe people too. But, as the
movie points out, the song remains essentially the same.

SOSA LECTURES ON THE OBJECTIVITY OF NORMS

Dr. Ernest Sosa, the Romeo Elton professor of philosophy at Brown Uni-
versity, will give a public lecture in the Science Center in room A—2l4 next
Monday at 7:30 p.m. The title of his talk is “Normative Objectivity.” He will
address whether the objectivity ofnorms is undermined by disagreement or by
naturalism.

Sosa has taught at Brown University since 1964 and has been a visiting
professor at the universities of Western Ontario, Pittsburgh, Miami, Michigan,
Texas, Harvard and at St. Catherine’s College at Oxford. He is the author of
over 160 papers published in philosophyjoumals.

Sosa has also has edited several collections and works of reference and is a
member ofthe editorial boards of 12 philosophy journals, including “Ameri-
can Philosophical Quarterly,” “Philosophical Perspectives” and “Philosophi-
cal Studies.”

VOGEL SPEAKS ON JEWISH PHILOSOPHERS

Lawrence Vogel, associate professor of philosophy at Connecticut College, .

will present a talk on Monday as part of Washington and Lee’s responsibility
lecture series.

Vogel’s lecture will be held in the Science Center, Room A-214, at 7:30 p.m
and is open to the public. His lecture is titled, “Jewish Philosophers After
Heidegger: Levinas and Jonas on Responsibility.”

Vogel received his bachelor’s degree from Vassar College in 1975 and
his doctorate in philosophy from Yale University in 1989. He previously
taught and lectured atYale University and Vassar College and he received
a National Endowment for the Humanities Summer Institute Fellowship in
1990.

He is the author of “The Fragile We: Ethical Implications of Heidegger’s
Being and Time” and more recently edited and introduced a volume of Hans
Jonas’ later essays, “Morality and Morality: A Search for the Good After
Auschwitz” for Northern University Press. '

-—-e-mail General Notes to phi@wlu.edu

S   T‘ ”P

»-.q¢~V.,«.

» r

 

 

 

 

PAGE 6

 

OCTOBER 12, 1998

Wildcats pounce
on Generals 29-7

W&L offense struggles for second
straight week in loss to Davidson

by Brendan Harrington

Sroms EDITOR

Coming into the season, it was w-
parentthat theGenetals’ defense was a
major concern, since the tam gradu-
atedeightstarters. Yetnooneques-
tionedtheGenerals’ drilitiesonoffense,
which returned eight stuters including
jimiorquarterhackChristim Batcheller.
But after five games, the Generals of-
fense is having itsownproblems,which
culminatedina29-7lossatthehandsof
Division l-AA Davitbonon Saurday.

WahingtonmdLee(l-4,0-ZODAC)
is averaging 15.4 points per gnne and
has scored only 13 points in the last
twoweekslthadbeenmorethansix
quarters since the Generals had scored
a touchdown when W&L scored in the
third quarter against Davidson.

“Offensively we are struggling,”
W&L head coach Frank Miriello said.
“Randolph-Macon and Davidson are a
lot better on defense this year, but we
should be a lot better on offense. Our
big play guys have to start making the
big plays. We just haven’t been doing
thatlatelyandwescemtobejustmisse
ing them by a finger tip.”

The defense played respectably
against Davidson's option offense and
keptthemtoaseasonlow3S8yatds.
Two of the fourDavidson touchdowns
resulted from superb ﬁeld 
Davidson began its first touchdown
drive on the W&L 27-yad line follow-
ing a Batcheller  The third
touchdown chive started on the W&L
23 following a blocked punt.

“Our defense is getting better ev-
ery week,” Miriello said. “We played
with a lot ofdiscipline today on de-

fense, and except for a few breakdowns
here and there, we played very well.”

W&L did a good job of containing
the option, but Davidson’s Tommy
Dugan had a solid day for the Wildcats
(3-2), mnning for two touchdowns and
throwing for one. He led rushing for
Davidson with 68 yards, and finished
the day eight of 19 passing for 111
yards, one touchdown and one inter-
ception. His touchdown pass was a 27-
yxd strike to wide receiver Roland Wil-
liams with 9:42 left in the -garne. Run-
ning back Eric Ferguson scored the first
touchdown of the game for the Wild-
ulswith 5:33 left in the ﬁrstquarter.

Sophomore nose tackle Bo
Henderson had a huge day forthe Wild-
cats on defense. Henderson led all play-
ers with 12 tackles, three ofthem for a
loss, and also posted two sacks. .

Marc Watson was one of the few
bright spots for the Generals, continu-
ing his stellar play. He scored the only
touchdown for W&L on a dazzling2l-
yard touchdown scamper with 4:42 left
in the third quarter. He finished the day
with 82yardson15cam'es,andisaver-
sgingmorethanfiveyardspercarry.

Batcheller finished the day 17 of 27
for 142 yards, no touchdowns and one
interception. Wide receiver J.T.
Malmesta led all Generals receivers with
60 yards on three catches.

W&L ishome forthenexttwoweeks,
hostiig l-hmpden-Sydney next Saturday
aid Sewmee for Paents’ Weekend

“We have ourbacks against the wall,
but we’ve been here before,” Miriello
said. “ lt’s not like we are 9-lor 8-2 ev-
ery year and being in this situation is
shockingtous.0ur tamwill respond”

See STATS, page 

Men’s soccer declaws Tigers

by Tod Williams

STAFF WRITER

A team’s homecoming game is always big, and the play-
ers are especially driven to win. When you are someone
else’s homecoming opponent, that desire to win runs even
deeper. The thought of ruining the homecoming festivities
can‘ bring a smile to the face of even the tamest competitor.

‘ Prior to Saturday’s game against Washington and Lee,
Harnden-Sydney was the only school that remained unde-
feated in ODAC play. In fact, the Tigers were ranked sixth in
the South in NSCAA Division 111 polls. Much to the Tigers’
dismay, their first ODAC loss came amidst their homecoming

celebration. W&L pulled out the win 1 -0.

The Generals lacked their usual offensive production in
the game, but the one goal they scored would prove suffi-
cient to upset the Tigers. In keeping in step with the season
and the past three years, Sam Chase quietly did his job as the
Generals’ scoring forward.

Chase called the win “pretty big — the biggest of the
season.” Last year, Hampden-Sydney beat the Generals at
home for W&L’s homecoming, so Chase said it was nice to
return the favor. He also pointed out that the Generals did not
need many extra incentives as motivators. “We really want
home field advantage during playoffs, so everyyconference

See SOCCER, page“/'

Volleyball ,
still rocks
ODAC

by Steele Cooper .

is

STA FF WRITER

K

The Generals posted another un-
beaten week in ODAC play. Thursday

W&L traveled to Sweet Briar, and won A

their seventh ODAC match (15-6, 15-4,
15-10). Their record now stands at 15-2
overall and 7-0 ODAC. This win brings

the Generals closer to repeating as }

ODAC champions. _
“The ODAC tournament is our pri-

mary goal right now. Nationals are kind

of out of our hands,” senior captain

Megan Snodgrass said. “All we can 5

do is play our best in the ODAC and
see what happens with the NCAA
toumament.”

Freshman Ricka Hildebrand and »
Snodgrass had seven kills each to lead
the offense. Sophomore Katherine
Kline posted 10 assists to lead the
Generals’ setters. “Overall, we played

relaly well as a team. We will still need I

to finish strong through the tough
matches to stay on top,” Kline said.
Washington and Lee has only three ‘

remaining ODAC matches before the
ODAC tournament on November 6'“
and 7"‘. The top six regionally ranked
teams will go to the NCAA touma-

' ment; W&L is currently ranked 5*‘.
Tuesday, Emory and Henry fell to the I

Generals as the latest in W&L’s tear
through the ODAC competition (15-,5,
15-4, 15-7). This win brought the team’s
record to 14-2 overall and 6-0 ODAC.

Hildebrand led W&L with 12 kills, “

and Kline led the setters with 17 as-
sists. Junior Nancy Reinhart, ODAC
Player of the Year for 1997, totaled 13

digs for the General defense. ,4

Tuesday, the Generals will travel to
Randolph Macon to take on the Yel-
low Jackets. '

evmimmss Participant

HIGH MARKS FROM

MORNINGSTAR,

s&1>, MOODY’S,
MONEY MAGAZINE AND BILL.

etahealotofprideingaininghighma.-ks
 Butthefact
is.we'reequallyproudoftheratingswege¢¢v¢.y
day ‘I'll!!! oltrparticipants. BecauseatTIAA-CREF.
etuuringtheﬁsnncialﬁrturesoftheeducationand
researchcorumunityissotnethingghngogsbgyond
starsanduumbers. ‘
We becamethewor-ld's largest retirement orga-


investments. a commitment to superior service. and

 

So does Bill.

us at 1800 842-2776.

-ljﬁllefune
Irethsuwlusﬁeit.’

operating expenses that a.re among the lowest in the
insurance and mutual fund industries!"

With TIAA-CREF. you'll get the right choices —
and the dedication -to help you achieve a lifetime
of ﬁnancial goals.‘ The leading experts agree.

Find out how TIAA-CREF can helpyou build a
comfortable. financially secure tomorrow.

Visit our Web site at www.tiaa-cr'ef.org or call

Send me

A Story Of Kegs, Dances, Paddlings, .
And A Hell Night That Will LeadYou To

The.....

THE BOOK *rH.a§?r EXPOEES WHAT
‘YOU KHEW "rjo BETRUE or FRATERNITY RUSH,
BUT WIZRE AF!'w.‘A1D__TO Armin‘.

 

oop'y(ies) of HELLMASTER

' -3 331-I1“ __ H _A :‘* * seniathu ‘  * ‘ ' anuiin.Th:nuplulu-fﬁnnhinasiwaun-ntexgxg-nceweIis'¢xn1snlrhe:xn32.5xm¢a..
_4”_"-7*" ' V . E _ ‘ﬂ _ %I!%ﬂIIw_vl-d\‘l'lr_vae_¢ieirhe:firxudeasnnnfsltun-.ﬁte-.uhInen-nru:vn1ge.u-auntmurnsm
. .& - '1. _' _I_ 1. r _‘ g  lselow%1hyT-hllwruns.Thoverdlsurr:tripret‘ervrdrnatIweueMovnnigsm-‘tpuh|.s|...g
'-" v -v- -."v r— -v v “‘l#3LlK.T‘Icsqau$lupd&d)raIspixa:hd'lkperinhac
""‘-"IV 3-I-'-v sun.-'-v Starlaiy 5.. V - -
"""""°"""'F'7 N-|'--Ii---Ii-I-I7 s-nadir-an-‘cage; susadrn-unap-y .vu-oaa'r.unmm N-antserniﬂutnucﬁqsutr  F335
r‘, “'11 .Uw—s&d Aca—s&d muumlnnl rlecunaulaul A.-munlmd
‘ V49’ 5/1124! s/1.120 um -I/2.120
.:: :,*:: W   W 
"M N/A .\'/A N/.-\ N/.«\
"'l'I.:uptu‘q-at-dan‘l'lﬁ-‘-‘ ' ' ' 4__- - ..._ . . . .
. . . , . . . -, 'I3doru1IsmhrnuupnnI,“'$u.olard ‘-Fur’: lnsuuaur Ian A ‘
l'’'.'‘ 93''"  "‘—,_'-£lP"l,""::-_A-ll-I 2-. rsrsonuusgt Cairo-ulna an! aunt; a. la. mural Eunmum at ~.krI;ln.l ls; r1.u.cnzr 
"-'__-ﬁg’. ‘“V . dlﬁlll-27J3,m5%.i¥theCIEF:IdT|AA&E.::eA<contutpr\npeuuses.llndthenucazeti-ilytgﬁng

$15 per book plus $2 shipping and h
Please make checks payable to Bill Books and mail to:

Ba'1IBooks
R0. Box 844
Sullivan's Island, SC 29482

ZIP
andling.

 

  

 SPORTS

omen’s soccer drops ﬁrst two of year  

  
     

.   eisalgjg;game,”~hesaid.iChaseatnibutedﬂie

» .  jex¢e1iei3¢~p¢rronnanc¢aggoai.   

 1:;Att¢ti68'xIﬁm1t=édfséoreleéssrlééwhase . - ., _ .. ,

- jsentthe Generalsto 6,."-2-1 on,‘ eseasb ‘~and\4 cl 1;i,Il.0l?AC, .

oppedto5l“l}3-lfand4-isl;§it:QBAC¢pla$§cii*»ﬂié,yeafIHis§"

,,  T °7ﬂ1,°%reeri>élh§f9Ftl1°$°.9fY§5?l$9,9 8 , . éihlez 

’ Onthé 6i3posite‘efnd ofthe ﬁéld;‘~s3é1iior   ' A

’ “ )&.his third shutout,é,fthe):, ‘

'ttl6;.to say‘ about his own‘perfoif-matte , ‘ 
¢3¥§17$»Play: ‘-‘\1Ve’re .. lli?§Rla¥il18‘l“!l?°li

E by Frances Groberg

SPORTS EDITOR

 
 
  
      

 

Great sports teams have to come back from tough losses to be successful.
The big losses sometimes serve as a wake-up call, giving the team new life and
drive to win. This year, the women’s soccer team has the opportunity to be-
‘ 2 come one of these teams.
*' The Generals lost their first two games of the season this week to Emory and
_ Roanoke, dropping their record to 6-2 overall, 5-1 in the ODACs. , , , s ’ ' _
On Saturday in Atlanta, Washington and Lee failed to put one on the board.  ,g,_?¥Fl§i«§;Y3:T¢~§9“,!”igl  - d"
A ..IiEm°T}”S Jill Warm SC0f€d the only goal of the game in the second half, defeat- .  ‘ . r .. ‘i ' « x  line 
ring the Generals 1-0 in their ﬁrst non-conference loss. , " I in 8  if V A _ . . , p  2
 “Despite the loss, we felt good about the game,” sophomore forward Marga- if ' ‘
:Hret-Hunter Tumer said. “They’re ranked third in the south, so the fact that we held
them to one goal in ‘the final minutes of the game made us feel really good.”
4’ Thursday at Roanoke proved to be extremely frustrating for W&L. The
(Generals controlled play for the majority of the game, but the Maroons were
;able to convert the few times the ball crossed the 50-yard line, coming out on

  
  
       

 
  

 
   
 
   

 

 
 

:',top 2-1.
‘  “Overall, we played well,” sophomore goalkeeper Lauren Harris said. “We Frances Groberg/Sports Editor
,,"just had a few defensive breakdowns.” Support for the women: Members of the men’s soccer team

 Head Coach Jan Hathom tried to “beat the doldrums” by mixing up the

‘hstalriting lineup for the team. “I wanted to raise the intensity of practice, so

L the day before the game, I told [the team] that all of the positions were

.‘:';open,” she said.

“"" Despite the new lineup, the Generals fell behind for the first time this season . .

7'' when Roan0ke’s Melissa Stanhewicz scored the first goal of the game from 25   

 yards out. The 1-0 score stood at the half.

_ Sophomore midfielder Shana Levine evened it up for the Generalsjust

‘_'over six minutes into the second halfwith her direct kick. Levine has four
goals this S‘3350Y1- Davidson (3-2) 7 8 7 7—29

, The turning point came withjust under 20 minutes left in the game. A Gen-’ Washington & Lee (1_4) O O 0 0 _ 6
“ erals’ foul set up a successful penalty kick for the Maroons, shifting the score

. .
A ‘E’. and, more importantly, the momentum, for the rest of the game. WLU DC I h   e k

, “We recovered [from the kick], but not enough to tie the game up again,”

support their women counterparts against Roanoke.

STATS FROM PAGE 6

SCOREBYQUARTERS 1 2 3 4

"'1-lathom said. “We got a little frantic in the ﬁnal minutes, but I was very im- Flrst Downs 14 20 TUESDAY
8 lPTe55ed that the team “VET gaVe “P7, RuSiieS_YdS (Net) 31-122 50-247 Men’s Soccer vs. Bridgewater4 p.m.
A The final 20 minutes of the game were characterized by numerous chances P3531118 Yds (Net) 142 l l l V011eyba11@ Rand01ph_MacOn
 for W&L, but the team was unable to convert on any of them. The score Passes Att-Com-Int 27-l7-2 19-8-0 W
{remained 2-1 at the buzzer, as Roanoke handed the Generals their first loss of Total Offensive Plays-Yds 58-264 69-358 EDNESDAY
lithe 59350” Fumble Returns—Yds 0-0 0-0 W°me"’5 50°99’ @ Lynchburg
'8 Harris considers the loss a learning experience. “We weren’t yet comfort- punt Retum5_YdS 2_2 , 4_52 THURSDAY
¢ table playing at such a high level for a full 90 minutes. The loss will help us to Kickoff RetumS_YdS 5_94 2_37 Men,s Soccer @ Denison
:_raise our expectations and play our game for the entire game.” Interception RetumS_YdS 0_0 2_27
 Hathom agreed. “The losses will either help us or pull us apart. That’s up to P t A 8_3 2 8 6_3 8 2 SATURDAY
'[the team], but I have every confidence in them.” un S (N0 Verage) ' ' Football "5- Hampd°“'SYd“ey 1330 Pm-
’ 8 Despite how things went for the team this week, Hathom has faith in her Fumblfisiost 0‘0 0'0 , Mews S°°°er@ VMI
" team. “The team really proved to me that they have it in them to be great. Penaltle5‘Yd5 7‘70 . 6'50 Womenls S°°°er@C°llege °fN0lT° Dame
mstatistically, we beat them. We just have to put itall together.” ~i-i -xv P0SSeS5l0I1 Time 29143 301 l 7 ' ’ V * Men’5a W°m.en"5 X‘°°um1')’@ VMI lnVlf3tl°“3~’l '
W The Generals willtryto get back on track this week in their important contest Sacks By Number—Yds 211 ll ” '8 2 '  2 l2-l7  7 H 2 '" . , . , __)V0lle)’b3ll@G°“°h°l"T°“mammV" M 

at Lynchburg on Wednesday. J L i 2 

‘.

 

eneral Information Meeting’

on 

  Tuesday, ctober 20

 Spring Term,     Limited
    Semester, or 7:0 pm   Financia|Aid
 Ful|Year »   Available],

 

 

PAGE 8

Humor Page

LAST WORD

OCTOBER 12, 1998

Korn’s Family Values

by Henry Gola

CONCERT REVIEW

Recently, W&L student Henry Gola
attended Korn ’s Family Values tour
in Philadelphia and lived to tell
about it. The Last Word brings you
his courageous tale as part of our
continuing eﬂorts to ﬁll up space.

When George Bush coined the
phrase “family values,” it’s doubtful
that chants cursing police, a cage con-
taining gyrating fans and public uri-
nation is what he had in mind. That’s
what went on at the sarcastically
named Family Values Tour, which is
now in its third week ripping across
America.

The male answer to Lilith Fair, this-

testosterone-charged tour has more
than filled the void for an aggressive
show left by Lollapalooza’s departure.
Riding the commercial success of Korn
and the controversy of Rammstein, the
tour also boasts West Coast veteran
Ice Cube, neo-metalheads Limp Bizkit,
and the goth-metal stylings of Orgy.
Rammstein, the German group that
garnered major MTV airplay with their
hit “Du l-last,” relied on special effects
and shock value to wow the largely
Adidas-clad crowd. In front of a burn-
ing backdrop, the lead singer set him-
self on fire, whipped out a fake penis,
urinated on both his keyboard player
and the crowd and shot ﬂamethrower
blasts above the mosh pit. Oh yeah,

W&L Film Society
Fall Schedule

“dedicated to bringing you the highest qual-
ityﬁlms you ’d never pay to see otherwise”

Kbla Khgash (Iran, I997) Ayoung woman
is sentenced to stoning for baring her naked
ankles in public. This ﬁlm sparked the great
Iranian political debate -—- should capital pun-
ishment be administered for religious crimes
or is torture enough?

Me Bloody Knickers (Great Britain, 1996)
The saucy tale of two irrepressibly naughty
Leeds barmaids. In the style of great British
comedy, which means it involves lots of men
in drag and hundreds of bad puns.

Jane Austen’s “Pride and Prejudice”
(Hong Kong, 1996) See the latest fruit of the
Jane Austen revival genre — Hong Kong style!
Jackie Chan as Charles Bingley and Jet Li as
the scandalous F itzwilliam Darcy face off in a
Kung Fu death match for Elizabeth Bennet’s
honor. Featuring Michelle Yeoh as Lady
Catherine de Bourgh, the nunchuck-wielding
aristocrat with a taste for blood.

YetAnother Mob Movie(USA, 1998) Mar-

V tin Scorsese’s latest. It stars —— get this —- Joe

Pesci as a violent psychotic mobster and Rob-
ert Di Nero as his saner mob cohort! Complete
with brutal beatings, Rolling Stones-laced
soundtrack and gratuitous profanity. This
movie was pieced together entirely from out-
takes of “Goodfellas” and “Casino.”

Twp Blue Pigeons (Europe, 1997) One of
thoseintellectual Euro-art ﬁlms involving lots
of symbolism you won’t understand. A spar-
row ﬂies out a window. A young boy receives
a toy train for Christmas. A truck ‘drives up

and down the street in the rain. A series of E

seemingly unconnected events that add up to
nothing in the end -- or do they? *
*edit0r ’s note: no, they don ’t.

Naked Ambitions (Cinemax, 1998) The
long-awaited sequel to “Naked Endeavors”
and “Naked.Desires.” Part of Cinem'ax’s con-
tinuing artistic quest to portray the human
condition; well, at least that portion of human-
ity that’s naked and large-breasted.

Attention
Parents

It'S1:30 ll.lll. III! 3 WGIIIISIIIV
lllllllllllll. Ill! VBII KIIOW Vlllfﬂ
V|lIll' Bllllll IS?

Flnll outwliatsreallv Iiallllenlntl
on camnus. subscribe to

Ellie ﬂing-tum lﬁhi

sent! a clioclmr $30 In:
last! Imlllams
Illa Illlla-IIIIIIPIIIBISIIIOSS lllllco
llnlvorsltv center
loxlngtln. Ill 24450

0! WIIIII VIII’?! III GIIIIIIIIS. SIN! I
GIIICK IlllIll' Ill! l|II|' Oi IIIIIII 209 ll
IIII IIIIIVIISIII cllllﬂl.

and they played music
too, thrashing out power
chords that comple-
mented the deep-voiced

German rants of Rammstein himself.

Despite Rammstein’s antics, it
was Korn that stole the show. The
strength of Korn’s funky guitar riffs
and lead singer Jonathon Davis’ cli-
mactic screams became even more
evident live. Old favorites “Divine”
and “Blind” as well as new songs
“It’s On” and “Got the Life” all in-
tensified the crowd. Another high-
light came when Ice Cube, who ear-
lier rapped through an impressive set,
came out to perform “Children of the
Korn,” a hip-hop/metal hybrid, and
“Wicked,” which Korn had earlier
covered on “Life is Peachy.”

Family Values, which has enjoyed
solid ticket sales, is out to prove crit»
ics wrong who said the market for
giant—sized tours appealing to male
teens no longer existed.

Krautrockers extraordinaire Rammstein turn up the
heat at the Family Values Tour. '

An open letter to the IFC and fraternity presidents

Last week you guys wrote a letter to the
campus papers saying that our portrayal
of underage drinking on this_campus is
detrimental to the goal of minimizing alco-
hol abuse on this campus. You charged us
to report on the more sober side of W&L
and tone down on the’ stories of wild

drunken abandon.

My question to you is: are you f"‘**ing

joking?

Maybe there aren’t too many joumal-
ism majors on the IFC, but let me break it to
you: somebody not getting arrested for
drunk in public is not a story. Here, which
of these headlines do you find more inter-

two,” or

“Fourteen sent to inﬁrmary in hall crawl
gone horribly wrong?”
“Responsible drinker cuts self off after

“Student ends up naked in a dumpster
in B.V. after weekend-long drunken frenzy?”
Look, the campus papers ignoring the

problem of alcohol abuse won’t make the

problem disappear. lfanything, people will

start to think they live in a. consequence-

get worse.

free environment and the problem will only

If we want to eliminate alcohol abuse,
we need to run front page pictures of people
passed out in a pool oftheir own vomit. We

they should be". They should have thought
about that before they got underneath the
beer bong for the eighth time that night, rather
than crying to the Phi or Trident for report-
ing their drunk in public charge the next week.

This is how the campus papers can help
the IFC in their goals -— not by sweeping the
alcohol problem under the rug and hoping it
just disappears, but by informing the public
about the possible consequences of their
drunken debauchery.

Let’s not turn our papers into sycophan-
tic tools ofthe administration. Let us do our
jobs asjoumalists and try reporting the truth,
in all its alcohol-drenched glory.

 

esting: need to run stories on every alcohol-related
“Nothing goes wrong Wednesday case that comes before the SJC. Sincerely,
night,”or Sure, people will be embarrassed, as well Your Phriends at the Phi

26 Musical instrument 3 Handout tree

29 366 days 4 “—— 27 Make a speech

32 Build Miserables” 28 Revival

33 Sheer linen 5Vote 29 Advances

34 Sheltered Side 6 Senator 30 Eagle’s nest

35 Actor Andrews Specter 31 Paper packs

36 Practical joke 7 Observed 33 Bind tightly

37 Moneyin Milan 8 Bus. abbr. 36 Bearing

38 One — time 9 Strutting 37 Row

39 Trim dance. 39 Strategy

40 Small portion 10 Fruit 40 Collieries

41 Disturbed I I Fixing over 42 Pact

43 Burns 12 Moslem 43 Backslider

44 Unrefined prince 45 Picture border

45 Money penalty 13 Wire mea 46 Present

46 Lorne - sures 47 Bellow

43 5621 eagle 18 Heron 48 Exude

49 Pastry 23 Twine 49 Rue de la —

52 New York College 24 Peruvian 50 Concerning

53 Area between Indian 5l Paradise
warring armies 25 Fishing net 54  . . man —-

Crossword Puzzle   
, 57 Unlawful activity 55 Zodiac sign

(answers on page 5)

ACROSS 15 Place for 20 Naval officer:

1 Trade sports events abbr.

5 Underlying 16 Half: pref.__ 21 Singer Campbell
10 Prepare hastily 17 Magnum, P.l. 22 Boo-boos

for an exam 19 J annings of 24 Metal
14 Adept old ﬁlms 25 Fencing item

58 Ireland

59 Playing card

60 Consumer

61 Beasts of burden

DOWN
I Escort
2 Black, to poets

 1994 Tribune Media Services

 

Off the wire

F ictitously reported by Kevin McManemin

Southerners tackle Y2K problem

Richmond, VA -— Computer scientists
around the globe are rushing to solve the
Y2K bug. In the old Confederacy, where there
are no computers (or “big purdy shiny
thingies,” the blanket Southern term for all
electronics), scientists are grappling with a
Y2K crisis of their own: they are concerned
that there will be no year 2000 as no one in
the South can count that high. Most South-
erners know only up to about three or four,
some know all the way into the double dig-
its; none can get past 1,865. “If we caint solve
this here dadgum problem, will thar be a
NA SCAR season in year two-zero-zero-
zero?” wondered Southern mathematician
Clem Botetourt. Scientists worry that if the
year 2000 NASCAR season doesn’t happen,
life in the South will grind to a halt (nearly
twice as fast as it’s going now).

Whites stage “Million Man Rave”

Washington —- To show their pain and
anger for being laughed at on the dance ﬂoor
all their lives, this week hundreds of thou-
sands of white guys descended upon our
nation’s capital to bust some funky moves.

“White people have historically been seg-
regated to the back of the room at dances.
Well no more. If I feel like gettin’ jiggy wid’
it, then I’m darn well goingto get jiggy wid’
it, by golly!” said Million Man Dance orga-
nizer Martin Steinhouser, a middle manager
at the Sears department store in Danbury,
Connecticut. i

The activists converged upon the Mall in
DC and danced until the sound of Italian loaf-
ers beating the pavement became almost
deafening. “l’m busting my mad ﬂavor for all
to see,” said dance activist Ben Mulhaney,
‘‘I don’t care if I can’t move to the beat or if
the rhythmless ﬂailing of my arms and legs
reminds people of a seal having an epilectic
seisure.” Mulhaney then attempted to “Cab-
bage Patch,” a dance move that was cool
maybe ten years ago.

The white guys are demanding that Con-
gress pass laws allocating more federal funds
to wealthy suburban schools for dance
classes and more money for dance research.
“Perhaps someday minorities will be able to
come up with a dance move so simplistic, so

easy that even the stiffest white guy in the

world can’t f"‘** it up,” said Steinhouser.

Man overjoyed to “just be friends”

Sacremento, CA -- Local man Dan
Bruckman is reportedly “ecstatic” that his
attractive co-worker Mary Phillips wants to

I “just be friends” and doesn’t want a more

physical relationship. “When Mary said she
didn’t want to spoil the specialness of our

friendship with sex, boy, was I relieved!” A

gushed Bruckman. Bruckman reports that he,
too, was concerned about the specialness
of their relationship and that sex was “the
furthest thing from my mind” with the beau-
tiful, available Phillips; ‘‘I think I speak for all
men around the world when I say that noth-
ing frightens us more than the prospect of
mining friendships with amazing, mind-blow-
ing sex,”-said Bruckman.

1/0 have the foresight to set goals and the determination to meet them. You have the creative spirit to take your
own ideas, implement them and make them work. You've got what it takes to head to the top with a rewarding career _
in retail. Hechfs, a division of The May Department Stores Company, has 0 place for you.

Hechl’s invites you to explore the opportunities in our Executive Training Program. Show us your style, your passion
for excellence, and we'll show you on exciting career. '

0 Buying ‘
0 Corporate Finance

Come and see us at our Reception at UCl T4 on
Thursday, October 22nd, 7 p.m. - 9 p.m..

Ask your Career Center for details. —

HECHT'S

A DIVISION OF THE MAY DEPARTMENT STORES COMPANY

Equal Opportunity Employer

To find out more about opportunities at Hechlls, visit www.moycompony.com

 

