K

I’

  

Ultra ilting-tum {ﬂirt

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

VOLUME 101, NO. 18

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, MARCH 15, 1999

Volunteers begin
work on shelter

Students team up with Lex community to
build shelter for battered women

By Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

Phonu b} ‘ , Bnmu Pholo Miro:

At the Pavillion, three volunteers cut wood for the shelter’s foundation this past weekend.

 ‘Night Owl tries to

avoid extinction

By Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

The latest campaign to save an en-
dangered species began last week at
the Washington and Lee University
campus.

Students are once again being
asked to save the Night Owl. Posters
dotted campus, urging students to
support Night Owl Records, which is
once again taking a hard look at it’s
own extinction.

“This past week there has been a
bit of an improvement from students,”
Wayne Raynal, owner of Night Owl,
said.

“I’m still below what I was doing

, last year, and l’ve sort of set a dead-

line for mid-April to decide whether
it’s worth trying to continue.”

Night Owl lost considerable busi-
ness last year with the opening of
CrossRoads CD’ s and Records and the
Wal—Mart Super Center. Raynal esti-
mates that roughly 60 percent Of his
sales are made to students, and with
that number steadily declining, a sub-
stantial part of his business is likewise
being lost.

In addition, Raynal says that sum-
mers are always slow without the stu-

’ dent population, and he needs to make

a decision soon as to whether he’ll be
able to make it through the summer.

Night Owl Opened in August,
1989 at it’s current location on
Jefferson Street. Since then,
Raynal has striven to open up the
local music scene, including a free
concert held last year named
“Waynestock.”

“I’ve done my best to promote
local music, though it’s not neces-
sarily music that I can make a buck
off of,” Raynal said. “That’s kind
of selﬁsh, though, too. It means I
get to see more music live myself.”

« But, according to Raynal, Night
Owl has always concentrated on
the music.

“I have one gimmick,” Raynal
said. “I’m always a dollar below the
list price, no matter what you or-
der. You can have the gimmicks, but
you have to pay for them.”

However, as he faces the pros-
pect of a future without his store,
Raynal also has to contemplate his
own future.

“I guess I’ll ﬁnd a realjob that I
don’t like nearly as much,” Raynal
said, “and probably get paid bet-
ter, too.” Although Raynal is hav-
ing to face reality, he contends that
his nine years in Lexington have
been good ones.

“it’s been a lot Of good music,”
Raynal said. “And so, even ifl

close, it wOn’t have been a waste.” ,

Phuln In l>1n|l)‘HIn\« Photo Ldilof

Night Owl Music owner Wayne Raynal hopes to stay in town.

The normal quiet of the woods
surrounding the Student Activities
Pavilion was shattered this weekend
. . . by the sound of power tools.

The Timber Framers Guild rolled
into town to begin work on a shelter
for battered women in conjunction
with Habitat for Humanity and Project
Horizon.

Close to 40 volunteers from the
Timber Framers Guild, Habitat, Virginia
Military Institute, Washington and
Lee University, and the community
gave up part of their weekend to lend
a hand.

“We’ll probably be taking some of
this stuff on site by midweek, if the
weather improves, but most of the
construction will happen next week-
end,” Brian Richardson, president of
the Board of Project Horizon and
W&L professor of journalism, said.
“What we’re doing here at the Pavil-
ion this week is cutting the joints into
the ends of the timber, so that they
interlock and ﬁt together and then you
can drive a wooden peg through them
and that way you don’t use any
nails.”

The shelter is the third Lexington
project for the Timber Framers, and

the second in conjunction with Habi-
tat. Both organizations acknowledge
a difference between this and previ-
ous projects.

“Usually wejust build houses for
low-income families, and this has
added a whole other aspect to it -
protecting people who are victims of
domestic violence,” Josh Beckham,
president of the W&L chapter of
Habitat, said. “And that’s something
that we wouldn’t have had the op-
portunity to do unless we’d banded
together with Project Horizon.”

Executive Director of the Timber
Framers Guild Joel McCarty agrees.

“The particular project here has
certainly make it easier to attract vol-
unteers from the Guild community,”
McCarty said. “We’re trying to show
people that almost anything can be
accomplished by community effort.
You’ll see a bunch of people from at
least four different [groups] working
together on this project.”

With the ball now rolling, Project
Horizon expects the construction to
be completed fairly quickly.

“We hope to open by the end of
summer, or maybe early in the fall,”
Richardson said. “Once the frame
gets up, there’ll still be a lot of ﬁnish
work to do on the interior, so we’ll be
relying on volunteers and donations

a lot for that, but this is really the criti-
cal bit.” '

When completed, the shelter will
be 4,400 square feet over three ﬂoors,
two of which will be fully ﬁnished, and
then a partially-fmished basement. The
house will greatly improve Project
HOrizon’s abilities to shelter victims of
domestic violence, which currently
averages two or three days.

“Most of them probably won’t be
there for longer than 30 days,”
Richardson said. “It’ll be in a residen-
tial setting, as homey as possible, for
up to a month. That should give them
a pretty good chance to try to sort their
lives out, and ﬁgure out what’s next.”

According to Richardson, the need
for the shelter has become obvious
over the past year. Calls to the Project
Horizon hotline have increased three-
fold during that time, and the organi-
zation is providing short—terIn shelter
to twice as many clients as it did last
year.

“At ﬁrst I thought that the number
of incidents was on the rise,”
Richardson said. “But Ithink we’ve had
aproblem fora long time. and it’s sort of
coming to the fore now. People know
they can come forward and get help.”

Soon, Project Horizon will keep a
light burning in a temporary home
across town.

Phi Beta Kappa inducts 53 students

By Eliarma Marziani
STAFF WRITER

Last Friday, the Washington and
Lee University Gamma chapter of Phi
Beta Kappa inducted 54 new members.

Four of the new inductees were
from the Class of 1998, 27 from this
year's senior class and 22 from the jun-
ior class. Art Goldsmith, professor of
economics, was also inducted as an
honorary member.

Founded in 1776 at the College of
William and Mary, Phi Beta Kappa is
the oldest and most prestigious honor
society in the United States. PBK rec-
ognizes academic achievement and
scholarship, and promotes the liberal
arts education. Chapters of PBK se-
lect and invite to membership students
with an outstanding academic record,
who have demonstrated some knowl-
edge in math and foreign languages
and have done three-fourths of their
undergraduate work in the liberal arts
and sciences.

PBK members are generally in the
top tenth percentile of their graduat-
ing class. Most inductees are under-
graduates, but some chapters, such
as W&L’s, also occasionally induct
graduates.

W&L’s inductees found out about
their honor about 2 months ago.

“To be honest, in one sense, I was
relieved . . . It was kind oflike, ‘Oh,
wow, so I made it?’” junior inductee
William Kanner said. “It is kind ofa
capstone, an acknowledgment that I
had worked hard and done well.”

Kanner was very happy to be in-
ducted, but tempered his excitement
with a little realism.

“I didn’t get too overexcited about

it,” he said, relaying the fact that he
had already been rewarded by receiv-
ing good grades throughout his col-
lege career, and that his induction into
PBK is not an accomplishment so
much as recognition of all that he has
already accomplished.

“It’s an honor to be inducted in it
at a place like W&L, where everyone
comes from such strong academic
backgrounds—everyone else is also
phenomenally intelligent around
here,” said senior Kelly Joy.

The ceremony at Lee Chapel on
Friday aftemoon was not the actual
induction of the new PBK members.
According to PBK regulations, the in-
duction must be a more secretive ser-

vice open only to new and old PBK
members.

The afternoon Lee Chapel cer-
emony, however, allowed the new in-
ductees to be publicly recognized.
The entire student body, professors
and parents were invited to applaud

Joy gave an address to the new
members on the importance of a lib-
eral arts education, saying that she will
“graduate in three months now with
the ability to speak well, write well, and
really think on [her] feet” as a result of
her quality liberal arts education.

exchange of ideas on campuses.
Through this program, PBK invites 12
scholars each year to visit institutions
with a PBK chapter and spend two
days at each of these colleges, attend-
ing classes, meeting informally with
members of the staff and student body,

A
3

.

Photo in l>nn|\ nun.-x l‘hMn l>d|Iul

New Phi Beta Kappa members stand for recognition in Lee Chapel on Friday.

the students selected for this presti-
gious honor.

During the ceremony, senior Maciej
Golubiewski was announced as the
winner of the prestigious Pinney Prize.
The annual award goes to an under-
graduate student, selected by the Stu-
dent Affairs Committee, who demon-
strates extraordinary commitment both
to personal scholarship and to the
nurturing of intellectual life at W&L.

Phi Beta Kappa also recognized
sophomore Angela Roman for having
the highest grade point average in the
class of 2001 . Her GPA is nearly a 4.2.

Caroline Bynum, a history profes-
sor at Columbia University, gave the
keynote address, entitled, “Metamor-
phosis and Identity in the Western
Tradition.” She traced werewolf lore
through the centuries and questioned
the concept of identity.

Later Friday evening, a closed cer-
emony took place in a room in the sci-
ence center. Each inductee was given
his certiﬁcate and key, was taught the
society’s secret handshake, and
signed the membership book.

Bynum also spoke again, this time
concentrating on the importance of
learning to accept change.

Thenight concluded with a dinner
catered by Dining Services, but the
PBK festivities are far from over.

One of the unique aspects of the
Phi Beta Kappa honor society is that
it is very active. In 1956, it created the
Visiting Scholar program to foster the

and giving an open address.

This year, Leroy Rouner, professor
of philosophy, religion, and philo-
sophical theology at Boston Univer-
sity, will be the Visiting Scholar for
W&L. He will be on campus March
22-23 and will present a public lecture,
titled “Ecstasy and Truth" on Tues-
day, March 23 at 7:30 p.m. in the Sci-
ence Addition, Room A-214.

OPINION:

W&LIEE:

SPORTS:

LAST WORD:

@112 ilitttg-tum lﬁlti

Comments on Kennedy, letter on stingy tippers
Mock Con, one-act plays and music review
Men’s lax beats Gettysburg, baseball loses two

Suggestions for alternative publications

March 14, 1999

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

PAGE 5

PAGE 6

 

 t: {Ring-tum ﬁhiS

 

MARCH 15, 1999

GENERAL NOTES

-E-mail General Notes to pl1i@wlu.edu

OCTAA meets

Students are invited to attend an
OCTAA — On Campus Talking About
Alcohol — program Thursday, March
18 from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. inroom 113 of
the University Center.

OCTAA provides students with
knowledge to make informed decisions
about alcohol use, skills to assess their
drinking behaviors and the tools to
make lifetime decisions about drink-
ing choices.

Call the Health Education Ofﬁce at
462-4501 to sign up for this
nonjudgmental, research-pasved pro-
gram. Eam auction money for “A Night
to Remember.”

Simpson lectures on

local architecture

Professor Pamela H. Simpson will
present a slide lecture tracing the ar-
chitectural history of Lexington on
Thursday, March 18 at 7:30 p.m. in
Northen Auditorium.

The lecture is in conjunction with
the exhibit “Images of Lexington: From
Miley to Hinely,” currently on display
in Leybum Library. It also highlights
the reprinting of “The Architecture of
Historic Lexington,” which Simpson
co-authored with Royster Lyle in 1977.

The lecture will be followed by a
reception, during which the book will
be available for purchase.

E _Phi Beta Kappa Scholar

visits campus

Leroy Rouner, professor of phi-
losophy, religion, and philosophical
theology at Boston University, will
visit the Washington and Lee Univer-
sity March 22 and 23 as part of the Phi
Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar Program.

Rouner will meet with several

classes, talk with various student and
faculty groups and deliver a public lec-
ture during his visit. Rouner's lecture,
titled “Ecstasy and Truth” will be held
Tuesday, March 23 at 7:30 p.m. in the
Science Addition, Room A-214.

W&L Wind Ensemble

performs in Lenfest

The 60—member Washington and
Lee University Wind Ensemble, di-
rected by Barry Kolman, associate
professor of music, will perform sev-
eral major works from the Band reper-
toire at a concert on Tuesday, March
23. The performance will take place on
at 8 p.m. at the Lenfest Center.

Celtic Band comes to

Lee Chapel

One of the biggest names in Celtic
bands, Boys ofthe Lough, will play in
Lee Chapel on Wednesday, March 24
at 8 p.m.

The Boys of the Lough create music
that is “full of guts and technical bril-
liance,” according to the Irish Times.

The music of the Boys of the
Lough ranges widely through the
ﬁddle, ﬂute, piping and vocal traditions
of Ireland and encompasses ﬁddle
music of Shetland, Scotland and North
America.

This concert is sponsored by W&L
International Performing Arts Series

and the Paul D. and Pualine B. Pickens
Endowment for the Performing Arts.

NYT reporter speaks

011 Japanese WOIIICII

Elisabeth Bumiller, reporter for The
New York Times, will be here Tuesday,
March 23. Her talk, entitled “The Secret
Life of the Japanese Woman,” is at 8
p.m. in Leybum Library's Northen Au-
ditorium.

Bumiller is the author of two books,
“The Secrets of Mariko: A Year in the
Life of a Japanese Woman and Her
Family” and “May You Be the Mother
of a Hundred Sons: A Journey Among
the Women of India.”

Riding team gallops to

regionals

The Washington and Lee Riding
Team will compete in regional compe-
tition on Thursday. W&L has a higher
number of qualiﬁers than any other
school in the region.

The team performed well Sunday
during their last show at Fancy Hill
Farm.

D-hall presents Karaoke

Put on your blue suede shoes and
dance on down to Evans for a’50s’
Karaoke night on Thursday, March 25.
The event begins at 5:30 p.m.

Wok’! M 6!?/TA/”

INFORMATION TABLE Wed., March 24

11:30 - 1:30 pm Outside of the Co-Op
CAMPUS PRESENTATION 3:00 pm
Tucker Hall, Room 318

BROAIJEN YOUR

work. TRAVE

make new

FRIENDS

rnat

HURIZONS
L

and have fun

onalise

roun RESUME’

Call l.800.GO.BUNAC
PO. Box 430. Southbury, CT, 06488

 

° I’ﬂI'ﬂIlIS' IIISIIIIIIIII

- Newly Renovated

Econo
Lodge

p540-463-7371 ‘ '»

' H08 IIBII WIIII IIBIIIIIIB
° IIII SIIIIIIIIIIQ IIIIIIIIIS

° FIBB IIIIIIIIIIEIIIEI Bl‘BiIIIIaSI

‘I?

8

happy st. patmcks oayi
|Zt2om VOUR lttzlenos at

 Iv
‘  4 connection

19 W. Nelson Str et Lexington 464-655

@

Tbinlchag of A
Summer Employment
Opportzmities“?

Special Programs
Resident Assistants
June 15-Aug. 3,1999

The Ofﬁce of Special Pro-
grams employs 5 W&L stu-
dents to serve as Resident
Assistants for a wide variety
of Special Programs includ-
ing Alumni Colleges,
Elderhostel, and adult con-
ferences. Duties include
housekeeping, attending all
meals with guests, bar recep-
tions, and shuttle driving. An
outgoing personality is a
must. Application deadline
is March 31, 1999.

For more information,
please contact the Ofﬁce of
Special Programs, Howard
House, 463-8723.

   

Are You _a Non-Business Major? Do You Want to Improve Your Marketability?

The Haas School of Business
at the University of California Berkeley
Intensive Summer BASE Program IS FORYOU!
July 6 -August I3, I999

  

Learn the fundamentals of:

° Accounting - Marketing

° Finance - Organizational Behavior

- Hands-on market & ﬁnancial research

° Business related computer applications

- Effective communication & presentation skills
0 Prepare for the corporate recruiting process

es, and Engineering students will beneﬁt from this rigorous, six-week sum-
" Iu  _,t..vvil| include lectures, case studies, company visits, guest speakers
  yions.

    
 

For more information, contact our website at:
httpzllhaas.berkeIey.eduIUndergradlBASE.htmI
or via email at: BASE@haas.berkeley.edu

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Annual Fund Staff Associate

The Ofﬁce of University Development has an opening for an Annual Fund Staff
Associate. This position assists in the development and management of strategies to
increase involvement in the ﬁnancial support of Washington and Lee through the Annual
Fund which provides direct support to the University’s operating budget. The term of the
position is one year, renewable for a second year, with preference given to recent W&L
graduates.

As this entry-level position depends on creative communication to a varied constituency,
the successful candidate should possess excellent writing and verbal skills. Also
necessary are demonstrated initiative, an ability to work within speciﬁc deadlines, ability
to prioritize and juggle multiple tasks, an ability to supervise and manage student workers
and alumni volunteers, and a willingness to assist other staff members as needed.
Candidates should also be prepared for evening and weekend work and some travel.
Familiarity with computers and with public relations principles is a plus. A Bachelor’s
degree is required.

Candidates should send a complete resume and letter of application to Robert W. Fox,
Director of Personnel Services, Washington and Lee University, Lexington, VA 24450.

Equal Opportunity Employer

-[c,cn

9

\ 

Academic couple seeks:

EGG DONOR

for clinic in VA/N C region: Cau-
casian woman, 21-30, nonsmoker,
college degree or higher, solid
SAT scores, at least 5’8”, lean/
athletic build, dark complexion/
hair, even-featured face, excellent
Ihealth/teeth/skin/eyesight. Right
candidate will be well-compen-
sated and asked to provide pho-
tos. Please send letter along with
background, education, and mo-
tivation for doing this to: POB
425545, Cambridge, MA 02142.
All serious replies answered.

...., ..__...,,  _‘ _
. ~. - _>_ 

- ~ - . -. . .. -- .,.._.... _,_<__, .
‘_AlI""f‘ yr.'\In!It'>K"lDPf1\l’J\/ ..

.4 ,.. .... ,

 

-T M

“TIAA-CREF sets the
standard in the

financial services industry.”

“---Americas
TOD Pension Fund.”

.._M .
-—Morningstar* °”"” Ma3aZ'"e~ January 1993

Y (gm/ed W

-~WtIIiam Ravdin.TIAA~CREF Participant

arm

..—S&P and MoodY’$
rating for TIAA*"‘

HIGH MARKS FROM
MORNINGSTAR, S&I’, MO ODY’S,
MONEY MAGAZINE AND BILL.

operating expenses that are among the
lowest in the insurance and mutual fund
industries.* * *

With TIAA-CREF, you'll get the right
choices--and the dedication—to help you
achieve a lifetime of ﬁnancial goals. The
leading experts agree. So does Bill.

TIAA-CREF can help you build a com-
fortable, financially secure tomorrow, with
tax-deferred annuities, mutual funds, IRAS,
insurance and more.

To find out more, call us at 1 800 842-277 6.

V N E e take a lot of pride in gaining
high marks from the major rating
services. But the fact is, we're equally
proud of the ratings we get every day from
our participants. Because at TIAA-CREF,
ensuring the financial futures of the educa-
tion and research community is something
that goes beyond stars and numbers.
We became the world's largest retire-

ment organization by offering people a
wide range of sound investments, a

commitment to superior service, and

www.tiaa-cref.org

Ensuringﬂmfuture
forthosewhoshapeit.“

I

‘Source: Momingstar. Inc., Principia Variable Annuirin/bf: I-2/31/98. "'I'hese top ratings are based on TIAA‘I exceptional ﬁnancial strength, claims-paying ability and overall operating performance
"'SunlIrl 0’Pl7or’.v Inna-ant: Ruiru Anllytix, 1998; Upper Analytical Services. Inc., IJ'pper<DI'r-rerun’ Annlytiul Data. 1998 (Quarterly). TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Service: Inc .
dinributu CREF cenifiutei and interests in the TIAA Rn] Euute Account. Teacher: Petionnl Investor: Services, Inc. diltrihutel the TlAA~CREI-‘ Mutual Funds. I I
,' ’ ' ' ' " _, charge: and r pleue call for , , . Read tliem carefully before you invelt or and money. To request prolpectulel, c|.I.l l 800 342-2753, ext. 5509.
Invelllnentl In securities Inch in mutual fund: uni variable nnnuitiu are subject to eeruin rinlu including the pouilsle Ion of principal. 1/99

For more

JAMES G. LEYBURN LIBRARY
WASHINGTON A LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VA 24450

MAR 161999   ~

 

 

MARCH 15, 1999

G11: ttitng-tum lﬁlii

OPINION

PAGE 3

Republicans need more like Kennedy

During her speech in Lee Chapel
Thursday, Kennedy covered a variety
of topics, ranging from her upbring-
ing, her career at MTV and feminism.
None of these subjects, however, had

 

nearly the effect on me as her com-
mentary on what direction the GOP
should take if it wants to survive and
find a place among the younger gen-
erations.

Kennedy. hit

crowd in Lee Chapel.

Photo by Emily Barnes
Guest speaker, Kennedy, addresses a packed

the nail on the
head when she
complained about
the lack of liber-
tarianism in the
Republican Party.
A small but very
vocal minority in-
sists on imposing
traditional mor-
als on society
through legisla-
tion.

The Pat Buch-
anans, Jesse
Helmses and Tom
DeLays of the
party insist on
making divisive
personal issues
such as abortion,
school prayer and
racially—oriented
immigration laws
their focus.

People like
them only con-
tribute to the

stodgy, out-of-touch, rich, old-white-
guy image of the party, and it’s a real
tum-off to the voters.

The Christian Right is to the Re-
publican Party what a really bad hook-
up is to a Washing-
ton and Lee stu-
dent: something
that you want to
forget but can’t
(though this might
depend on what state you’re in dur-
ing the incident).

Don’t get me wrong, I have no
problem with traditional morals; I em-
brace most of them. I refuse, however,
to let my moral convictions get in the
way of my political beliefs.

. As Kennedy said, “We need to
learn to compartmentalize, like Slick
Willie,” meaning that Clinton’ 5 ridicu-
lous separation of what he says and
what he does could have practical and
moral applications in conservative
philosophy. We can be against abor-
tion, homosexuality and unrestricted
immigration without having to legis-
late it. Hopefully, the rest of the coun-
try will follow their leaders’ examples
(for once a good thing), and such laws
would be unnecessary.

The future of the party, as Kennedy
said, lies in ﬁscal conservatism. Ameri-
cans pay too much and get too little.

 

Colonnade looks naked
without happy smiling faces

Something has been missing from
this campus for most of this academic
year. Our Colonnade, recognized by
students, faculty and nearly everyone
associated with this University for its
unquestionable
beauty, has re-
mained stripped of
its most heart-
warmingly attrac-
tive feature since
early in the school year. Majestic red-
bricked buildings with awe-inspiring
white columns just don’t do it for me
(especially when the things are cov-
ered with that damned white stuff).

When it comes to putting a smile
on my face, nothing works better than
one ofthe same on someone else’s. I
hope the day is not too far in the fu-
ture when our Colonnade is decked
with which crazy, happy faces.

A hypocritical grin from someone
walking all bundled up in a big jacket
and burdened with far too many books

,......

 

K Off His Rocker
em’ if Stephen Pesce ’O1

 

isn’tthe smileI’m looking for. I’m look-
ing for smiles from students so in-
volved in their glee that they don’t
even notice you and the speaking tra-
dition doesn’t even cross their minds.
Well, the “Keep off
grass” signs are
gone. Hopefully
that means we can
once again enjoy
the rich, cool feel-
ing of green grass between our toes.
Frisbees, footballs, lacrosse sticks,
heat exhaustion, dogs mindlessly
chasing down sticks, these are the
things that make the Colonnade so
beautiful. Give me a run-down group
of gray and brown shacks with a pick-
up game of touch football on a green
ﬁeld. You can have Lee Chapel and
Washington Hall.

In any case, if there is a good and
loving God, then spring and wamier
weather are coming soon, so students
can once again grace the Colonnade

Ellie ﬂing-tum ilﬂlii

   

’ '’52:aur

with their jovial charm. Freshmen who
have not yet experienced the splen-
dor of a sunny day on the front lawn
will soon realize that Washington and

Lee’s Colonnade can truly be the most’

beautiful place on Earth. The differ-
ence between stressed-out students
walking to their next dreaded class and
carefree students running around like
wacked-out monkeys on speed is truly
remarkable. I’ve been stressed out for
too long now, I want to be a spunky
little monkey once more.

I’ve sensed a cold dreariness cloak-
ing the campus for a while now. This
recent bit of nasty weather has dimmed
my spirits to do much of anything. I
don’t know about you guys, but I can
only function amidst unpleasant
weather for so long. That cappuccino
in the Co-Op can only keep me going
for so much longer. Hopefully with a
new lawn and some brighter weather,
the whole campus will revive with re-
splendent ardor.

iiote of the week:

Poison Pen

The best way to achieve the personal
freedom and equality liberals whine
about so often is to cut taxes and put
the money back in the hands of the
people.
Clinton’s massive
~ tax hikes in recent
years, supposedly di-
rected at “wealthy
taxpayers,” currently
affect more than 40%
of all taxpayers in one way or another.
I know we’re the richest nation on
earth, but give me a break.

The Democrats’ proposed~National
Health Plan reeks of socialism; it would
effectively limit the choices that an em-
ployee has in choosing a doctor. In
the words of John Kasich, a presiden-
tial candidate, most people don’t want
their employer to pick out their run-
ning shoes, let alone their health in-
surance and doctor.

Hopefully, Kennedy’s wish (and
mine) will come true. The uptight so-
cial conservatives will be replaced by
fresher, more moderate faces that are
open to compromise and understand-
ing. Though I’m not sure adopting
Kennedy’s wild dress and mannerisms
is the answer, maybe her spunk and
practicality will catch on. Doing so
could very well be the only hope for
the GOP.

 LETTER TO
THE EDITOR

‘Student unhappy with
W&L dining behavior

. v 0 Dear Editor,
,1 amia W&L student who works
in town as a server in a restaurant.
, I have waited on W&L students
‘and faculty many times. As every-
f :,one knows, the proper tip for a
_‘ “server in a restaurant is 15-20%, de-
pending on the quality of service. 1

Spring in Lexington

At least I get to wear my North Face for another few weeks.

am writing this letter because recently
I waited on two separate W&L deans
and neither time was I leﬁ a proper tip.
On both of these occasions I was
complimented on the good service and
subsequently left a 10% tip. This leads
me to two possible conclusions, either
the deans were lying when they
complimented the service or they don’t
know how to tip properly. From speak-
ing with the other servers, these were
not isolated incidents.

It is important to me that people in
this town have a positive perception
of W&L, its students and its staff.

, Occurrences like this hurt the reputa-
tion of this university, especially when
the people doing this are the leaders

of our school. Waiters and wait-
resses only make $2. 13 per hour. It
is hard to make money, much less
earn the minimum wage, when
people do not tip properly. I was
very surprised the first time this
happened because I assumed that
the deans here know better. But the
second time, I was very disturbed
and I decided to write this letter. It
is not hard to tip properly. If you
receive good service, have that re-
flect in a good tip. It will make you
look like a better person and make
the servers not dread waiting on
you.‘
Sincerely,
‘Anonymoiﬁ

Executivg Editors
News Editors
W&Life Editors
Opinion Editors
Sports Editor
Last Word Editor
Copy Editors

Photo Editor
Online Editor

Business Manager

Tarah Grant
Hollister Hovey
Polly Doig

John Stewart
Ginger Phillips
Erica Prosser
Stephanie Bianco
Stephen Pesce
Frances Groberg
Kevin McManemin
Sarah Meldrum
Meredith Mlynar
Emily Barnes

Ali Soydan

Jason Williams

{{

I don’t want to go to
sleep tonight; I do that
every night. It gets old.

— Sophomore girl

2!

STAFF EDITORIAL

Midlife

  Crisis of  

Matt Lorber
Lionel Brown

Advertising Director
Circulation Director

To all recently
initiated pledges:

You are ﬁnally brothers in your respective fratemi-
ties. Congratulations. For six weeks, you endured un-
desirable situations and constant anxiety. The last six
weeks have taught you to respect your own pledge
brothers, the brothers of your chapter, and the broth-
ers in your national fraternal organization. All of you
have a common bond that will stay with you forever.
You worked hard to earn admission. You will never

Dancing to Good

.~,:~°‘i
‘s

C The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring—tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
4 elects the Executive Editors, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
A‘ on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion

Thursday, March 25, 1999, 8 pm - Saturday, March 27, 1999, 2 pm

of Th R‘ -1 PliEditorial Board. Ad ertisin does . . o ' . >-

not rcetleizillfheutgnpinions of The Ring—tum I:/hi or itfstaff. regret lt‘ If you ever Seefinother brother a“_yWhe'e m D W Sunday, March 28’  8 Pm

X‘ This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of the worlds Y0“ and he Wm have an automauc and ml‘ ‘ . . ‘ . ‘
libel and obscenity. breakable bond. ‘ Q ‘ .  B

 

Freedom is an incredible feeling, and’all of you feel
it now. It is now possible to look back with levity on
the last six weeks. You will probably agree that although
it was awful while it happened, it was worth it. Now,

Friday, March 26, 1999, 8 pm 0 Sunday, March 28, 1999, 2 pm

Monday, March 29, 1999, 8 pm '

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University

L ' i , VA 24450 - - - _
Te|e$§:)"nge:"';540) 4624060 you can relax. Take time to reorganize your lives. An ﬁ . .. " . W
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049 swer the phone with confidence. But most importantly, “mTmI;IE‘,N,TRE . e .
Fax: (540) 462-4059 reﬂect on the value of pledgship. Hopefully, now that  ‘“‘”“ . ’ . °
1: E"“a"¢ ”'"@“”"'“d“ you’re brothers, it all makes sense. Pledgeship is not Johnson Theatre ° Lenfest Center  Q . ’

 

~ 0 always enjoyable, but you will remember the last six
weeks for the rest of your lives.

For ticket information call the Box Ofﬁce 463-8000

 

 

PAGE 4

W&L1FE

MARCH 15, 1999

Get ready, students:

By Eliarma Marziani
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee University is less than a year away
from celebrating one of its most exciting events, the famed
quadrennial Mock Convention. In past years, Mock Con
has gained quite a national reputation, being named “one
ofthe nation’s oldest and most prestigious mock conven-
tions” by The Washington Post.

Mock Convention is an event in which student body

“It deﬁnitely takes a lot of effort and organization,”
Midwest Regional Coordinator and W&L sophomore
Kirsten Malm said.

The entire steering committee meets at least once a
week, the political chair and his regional coordinators meet
once a week and the executive committee has several one-
on-one meetings with various chairmen throughout the
week. The steering committee has met with the Lexington
Business Advisory Committee and is working to “make

this something that [members

delegates make a prediction as to whom the out-of-of- of the town] are a part
fice party will nominate as their presidential candi-   Of,” Malm Said-

date for the year’s election. Traditionally, Mock J U I1 i 0 F
Con has been an uncannily accurate predictor of  Sean Edd)’,

the ultimate candidate. As the convention is
held in March, before most of the state con-
ventions, Mock Con is a true predictor of the
nominee, not merely a reflection ofwhat is al-
ready popularly known.

Many wonder how W&L students have
managed to attain such accuracy in its fore-
casts. The answer is not in a crystal ball or
writing in the clouds ~— rather, it is embodied
in one word: research.

To ensure a correct prediction, students
conduct grassroots research at the state and
local levels. Five regional coordinators super-
vise more than 50 state and territory chairmen,
who are responsible for forming committees to
contact officials and citizens of their respec-
tive areas and get a feel for public opinion in
those areas.

By conducting careful and precise research,
students are able to gauge the nation’s senti-
ments and predict its choice for the out-of-of-
ﬂce presidential candidate, rather than merely nominating
a person that they, as a fairly limited and unrepresentative
body, would select independently. This meticulous re-
search is what sets W&L’s Mock Convention apart and
makes it what Harry Truman called “a real convention.”

Mark Schweppe, W&L junior and general chairman of
the convention, predicts that as the convention approaches,
he will be spending approximately 25 hours a week working
on it. All regional coordinator applicants were advised at the
time ofapplication that they needed to be willing to commit
at least 20 hours a week to convention duties.

the media
chair, is
workingto
get Mock
Con more
national
coverage,
talking to
MTV, C-
S p a n ,

  
 
 
   

Lexington 2000

CNN and all the major networks. “We’re making sure that
the rest ofthe country gets to know what’s going on with
the Mock Convention,” he said.

State chairmen were just selected, and they will soon
begin looking for interested people to serve on their com-
mittees. Now is the time for students to get involved.

“We hope to have, by the time the convention takes
place . . . close to 90 percent [of students] involved in
some way or another,” Schweppe said. Students are needed
to do everything from major time commitmentjobs includ-
ing research to more minor yet essential duties such as

Mock C011 is comin

merely taking up ﬂoor space
at the convention itself in
March of 2000.

So what’s in store for the
celebration? Mock Con, af-
ter all, is not merely a two-
day event on March 3 and
4, 2000. It is a year-long
event to take hold of the
student body and get it in-
terested and excited in the
changes in national politics
and its role in these
changes.

A full slate of events is
already in place to accom-
plish these goals. The Mock
Convention year of celebra-
tion begins with the Spring
Kick-off April 26-28 this
year. On April 26, Mock Con
will host a Presidential ls-
sues Forum. The steering
committee has asked inﬂu-
ential conservatives to

speak about the election on that day, and it has received a
speaking commitment from Whit Ayres, a leading Repub-
lican pollster.

April 27, W&L will be the site ofa media panel, made up
ofwhat Schweppe calls “highly visible members from the
Washington press corps.”

This panel will discuss the candidates and the media’s
role in the election. Members of the panel include: Howard
Feinman, chief political correspondent for Newsweek and
an NBC political analyst; Bill Schneider, senior analyst for
CNN and a member ofthe Mock Con advisory board; Jim
Barnes, chief political correspondent for National Jour-
nal; and Howard Cook, the founder of the Cook Politicdl
Report.

For Wednesday, April 28, the steering committee has
invited all of the Republican hopefuls to speak. Alan
Keyes, Steve Forbes, Lamar Alexander and Dan Quayle
have expressed interest in attending. George Bush, Jr. will
not be able to make the event due to a Texas legislative
meeting, and the committee is still working on Elizabeth Dole.

Also that night, Mock Con and the Student Activities

Photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Editor

Juniors Mark Schweppe and David Dardis discuss plans for the Republican
Mock Convention. Although the convention is set to begin a year from now,
committee members are already busy making preparations for the big event.

Board willjoin forces to present Willie Nelson in con-
cert, most likely at the Student Activities Pavilion.
Schweppe explained that all these events are intended
to “keep the excitement up on campus” throughout the
coming year.

More such events are anticipated for next year. In
November of 1999, Malm is hoping to present a First
Ladies Conference, in which the wives of former presi-
dents could come together to talk about life in the White
House.

The Presidential Gala will also take place next Novem-
ber. The Gala is a formal dance in which the student body
is invited to join to enjoy the pre-Mock Con excitement.
When the convention itself rolls around in March 2000,
ﬂoats representing all ofthe states will parade through the
streets of Lexington, adding to the air of excitement sur-
rounding the convention.

The Convention will hopefully result in the seventh
consecutive and l7th overall correct prediction of the presi-
dential nominee, this time for the Republican party.

So get ready: the party is starting, and it’s big.

 

crowning achievement for several rea-

reaches a happy balance.

Pearl J am, Portishead show musical genius on live albums

By Matt LaMotte

PHI MUSIC RE VIEWER

In 1983 David Bowie’s “Ziggy
Stardust: the Motion Picture” concert
album brought a heart-rendering real-
ization to fans across the world,'as
they listened to Bowie tell his audi-
ence of 50,000: “Not only is this the
last show of the tour, but it’s the last
show that we’ll ever do.”

Not since that release has a live
album by a contemporary artist arrived
with any relevant signiﬁcance or ar-
tistic value — until now.

Pearl Jam’s “Live on Two Legs” and
Portishead’s “Roseland Live NYC” may
easily be the two most important live al-
bums of the decade. The manner in which
these discs portray Pearl Jam and
Portishead, arguably two of our
generation’s most important artists, var-
ies drastically. Both albums, however,
manage to display the artistic strengths of
the respective bands in ways that often
approach the kind of genius at which their

sons. Most notably, the darker, more
serious touches that have increasingly
inﬂuenced (and arguably worsened)
their more recent albums have all but
disappeared on this disc.

Mocking, pre-
tentious songs
such as “Lukin”
and “Bugs” take a
back seat in the
live show to more
upbeat, spirited
songs such as
“Hail, Hail,”
“Given to Fly”
and the rocking
“MFC.”

The songs in-
cluded on this al-
bum recall the
kind of unbridled
compositional
enthusiasm that
made “Ten” and
“Vs.” Pearl Jam’s

veritable greatest hits collection. Their
live versions of classics like “Black,”
“Betterman” and “Even Flow” come
close to eclipsing the emotional and
rhythmic strength of the originals.
The variation between their quick,

 

Pearl Jam’s latest release, “Live on Two Legs,” is a mix
of new songs and live renditions of famous classics from
earlier albums like “Ten” and “Vs.”

From beginning to end “Live on
Two Legs” moves quickly from one
fascinating direction to another, a veri-
table emotional joyride thatjust may
be the band’s most accessible effort
to date. Fans who
haven’t bought a Pearl
Jam album since “Ten”
have every reason to give
this one a chance.

Portishead’s
“Roseland Live NYC”
marks another stunning
live album achievement,
but for entirely different
reasons.

Portishead, pioneers of
the late-90’s moniker
known as trip-hop, have
made a name for them-
selves through its
minimalist approach to
songwriting: a simple beat,
a repetitive jazz sample and
a wispy vocal line consti-

j,w___'I‘he grand scheme be-
hind the “Roseland” con-
cert, however, was to have
a thirty-piece string orches-
tra accompany the band,
adding melodic weight to
their entrancing
minimalism. This concept
has resulted in a mesmer-
izing live album that differs
noticeably from their stu-
dio efforts, but is also
probably their greatest
achievement.

Most of their most
popular songs, including
“Sour Times (Nobody Loves Me),”
“Roads” and “All Mine” appear on the
album. The addition of a string en-
semble, however, adds a distinct depth
that the band has continually lacked.

The trippy,jazz-inﬂuenced, reso-
nating dissonances remain, as do the
splendor and sensitivity of lead singer
Beth Gibbons’ shockingly beautiful
voice. Even the subtle, rhythmically

 

Portishead offers a unique and memo-
rable musical experience with its newest
recording, “Roseland Live NYC.”

songwriter Geoff Barrow’s mesmeriz-
ing instrument samples, to provide a
feeling of exploration that they have
never achieved before. Without the re-
sponsibility of providing the musical
backbone, Barrow and Gibbons are
free to wander into new melodic play-
grounds of sound and the results mani-
fest themselves beautifully on almost
every track on the album.

previous albums only hinted.

“Live on Two Legs” to be the band’s

Many fans of Pearl Jam may find

two most popular albums.

terial, the rest of the disc runs like a

Besides the allure of the new ma-

intense songs such as “Corduroy”
and their more delicate, melodic ones
like “Nothingman” and “Off He Goes”

tute the entirety of a good deal of the
tracks on their two studio albums,
‘(Dummy)’  GAP.”

One Acts coming to Lenfest

By Erica Prosser
F EA TURES EDITOR

Student directors are taking to the
stage again for this year’s Festival of
One Acts. Below (left to right),
Julieann Ulin, Robert Powers, Anne
Hazlett, Alysia Graber and Cliff
Woolley rehearse “The Actor’s
Nightmare,” which is directed by
Woolley. This play, along with “Nice

  

People Dancing to Good Country
Music,” directed by Juliet Bickford,
makes up Bill B. “The Actor’s Night-
mare” is a comedy that leads the main
character through the nightmare of
being on stage without knowing the
script or plot. “Nice People” is the
story of Sister Catherine, who is asked
to leave the convent after spells of
uncontrollable cursing and barking.
The pieces featured on Bill A are

Photo courtesy of Susan Wager

 

“You Belong to
Me,” directed
by Holly Estes,
“The Midlife
Crisis of
Dionysus,” di-
rected by Brian
Prisco and “An
Interview,” di-
rected by Peter
Duvall.

“‘You Be-
long to Me’ is
about a struggle
for power and
control,” Estes
said. “The three
central charac-
ters fantasize about killing the per-
son who seems to be at the heart of
their problems.”

“Dionysus” is about the god of
theater, sex and alcoholic bevarages
who reaches a tuming point in his life.
He must reconcile the party days of his
youth with the boring future ahead.

“An Interview” is about an attor-
ney and an attendant, who represents
the gatekeeper of Hell. The two men

M

 

Rachel Welch ’02, Greg Pleasants ’00 and John
Floumoy ’99 practice their lines for “Nice People
Dancing to Good Country Music,” written by Lee
Blessing and directed by Juliet Bickford.

tive

Photo courtesy of Susan Wager

engage each other in a verbal spar-
ring match as the attorney attempts
to argue his way out of eternal dam-
nation.

Bill A will run Thursday, March 25
at 8 p.m., Saturday, March 27 at 2 p.m. A
and Sunday, March 28 at 8 p.m. Bill B
will run Friday, March 26 at 8 p.m., Sun-
day, March 28 at 2 p.m. and Monday,
March 29 at 8 p.m. No tickets are re-
quired and admission is free.

deft drum samples retain the haunt-
ing brilliance that basically defined
the trip-hop movement.

Songs such as “Mysterons”
and “Glory Box” that seemed thin
and weightless on their respec-
albums
Roseland; the string accompani-
ment fully ﬂeshes out the band’s
melodic ideas and allows the
samples breathing room.

This also allows Gibbons’ vo-
cal touches, as well as chief

tAzYiz ..ER at .
SAILBOATS - .T-n<i BEACH BAR.- JET. SKI5. : PA

“HOME OF THE WORLD'S LONGEST KEG PARTY"
FREE DRAFT BEER All WEEK LONG-(ALL FOR INFO!

17403 FRONT BEACH ROAD-

“Live on Two Legs” and
“Roseland” may be two ofthe great-
est live albums of our generation. Each
one portrays its respective artist in an
exciting, adventurous and new light

their studio personality.

For those curious as to what Pearl
Jam has been doing for the last couple
bf years, or for those seeking to ex-

plore exotic new worlds of luscious
harmony and sonic texture, these new
live collections are the answer.

succeed on

‘E - SUITES UP T010 PERS’

‘I-800-488-8828 ’

www.sandpiperbeacon.com (*rates per person)

PANAMA CITY BEACH, FL 3241‘;

that differs, often for the better, from _

 

 

MARCH 15, 1999

S

@112 filing-tum lﬂlti

PORTS

Men’s lax edges Gettysburg

By Brendan Harrington

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s lacrosse team used a
stifling defense to defeat fourth-ranked Gettysburg 6-4
on Saturday afternoon in Pennsylvania.

W&L gave upjust three goals in the first 58 minutes
ofthe game. Sophomore midﬁelder Matt Dugan led the
Generals with a goal and two assists. Sophomore Pope
Hackney, junior Colin Dougherty, junior Chris Brown,
sophomore Ben Lucas, and junior Greg Meyers each

scored one goal.

The Generals (2-1), who are ranked ﬁfth in the nation,
played their second straight game against one of the top
four teams in the nation. Last Saturday, the Generals lost 9-
8 to Washington College, the ﬁrst-ranked team in the na-
tion and defending national champions.

The Generals have owned the Bullets as of late, hav-
ing now defeated Gettysburg four straight times. The Gen-
erals downed the Bullets 9-8 in double overtime last year
in Lexington.

The Bullets (1-1) led 2-1 early in the second quarter, but
Dugan scored with 10:24 left to go in the half. Less than a

minute later, W&L took a 3-2 lead when Dougherty scored
offan assist from freshman midﬁelder Andrew Barnett.

The Generals scored the only two goals of the third
quarter and opened up a 5-2 lead. Brown scored with 8:09
left in the quarter and Lucas scored with 4:34 left in the
quarter. Meyers added an insurance goal with 4:18 left in
the game and the ﬁnal score was 6-4.

Sophomore goalie Wes Hays had 8 saves and W&L
outshot the Bullets 27-21.

The schedule now gets a little easier for the Generals as
they host Dickinson on Wednesday and Franklin &
Marshall on Saturday at the Liberty Hall Fields.

F&M sneaks by Women’s lacrosse in overtime

By Frances Groberg

SPOR Ts EDITOR

The possibility of an impending storm did not prevent
parents of the Washington and Lee women’s lacrosse play-
ers from traveling to Lexington to watch what has histori-
cally been a ﬁerce contest between the Generals and the
Franklin and Marshall Diplomats on Saturday. Bearing food
and drink, they were not disappointed. The game went
into overtime, where F&M was able to edge out W&L 14-
13 in the last 51 seconds of the second overtime period.

The Diplomats jumped out early by a score of 3-0, the
biggest deﬁcit of the entire game, but the Generals were
able to turn it around and tie the game 5-5 at halftime.

With 15:02 left, W&L gained their ﬁrst lead of the game,
9-8. W&L edged out in front 13-1 1 with a goal from fresh-
man Eloise Priest, who led W&L with three goals on the day.

Junior goalie Ginny Jemigan blocked 12 shots on the
day, as did Diplomats goalie Alissa Sculthorpe.

In the final minute of the second overtime period, how-
ever. the Diplomats were able to put one in the net and
secure their 14-13 victory.

“We deﬁnitely played up to our capabilities,” Head
Coach Jan Hathom said. “I was very proud ofthe way we
played —— our chemistry was better, and we’re coming to-
gether as a team.”

It was a very different story on Thursday when the
Generals took on the Bridgewater Eagles. Seven goals in a
span of fewer than 20 mintues took W&L into halftime
with a 7-0 lead. The Generals added six more in the second
half, crushing the Eagles 13-1.

W&L takes on Colorado College in a makeup game on
Monday at the Liberty Hall ﬁelds starting at 4 p.m.

 

 

TOURN

WHEN:
WHO:

Eligible
HOW:

Gymnasium
AWARDS:
champion

€l‘lTl2V DCADLINC.

TOURNAMENT DIRCCTOR.

UNIVERSITY SQUA,
CHAMPIONSHIPS

W&L UN|\l€l2§|TV
  §OFT §QUF1§H

 

March 23-26,
Separate Men’s and Women’s Divisions
All Students, Faculty, Alumni, and Staff

Entries and information available at the
equipment room (300 level), Doremus

Trophy to individual men’s and Women’s

   

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

‘ Junior Ansley Miller denies a Franklin and lMarshall player access to the goal on Saturday.

AIYICNT

1999

MARCH Q9, 4 PM.

COACH JOC LVL€§ K8683

 

Hoehl tenth
at NCAAS

By Frances Groberg

SPOR Ts EDITOR

Senior Margaret Hoehl has been ripping through Wash-
ington and Lee women’s swimming records and earning
top times all season.

She continued to do so even at the NCAA Women’s
Swimming Championships at Miami University this week-
end, where she placed tenth in the 1650 freestyle.

Her time of 17:35:21 broke a school record by 1 1 seconds.
Hoehl also ﬁnished eleventh in the 500 freestyle with a time
of5 :03 :57. These two stellar performances qualify her as an
honorable mention All-American.

“It was an honor for me to even go to the NCAAS,”
Hoehl said. “My goal wasjust to place in the top 16, and
I was happy with my performance. It was a good end to
my career.”

Hoehl has managed to impress people far beyond the
ODAC. She appeared in the March 1 issue of“Sports Illus-
trated Magazine” in the section “Faces in the Crowd.”

“Margaret led by example,” coach Kiki Jacobs-Moore
said. “It’s hard to swim at a meet like the NCAAS, but she
swam extremely well.”

Hoehl. in this meet alone, broke school records not only
in the 1650-yard freestyle, but the 1000-yard freestyle and
her own previous record in the 500-yard freestyle.

In addition to holding the record for the 1650-yard
freestyle, Hoehl also holds a place in the books in the 400-

yard individual medley and as a member of the 400-yard '

freestyle relay. She also earned 12 top times this season in
freestyle, breast, t1y,medleys and relays.

Freshman Blaine Clarke considers Hoehl an inspirational
presence on the team. “She"sjust amazing,” she said. “She’ll
swim anything and she’ll swim it hard and win — shejust
doesn’t stop. It makes me want to go out there and do my
best too.”

Hoehl said that in the future, she would love to do some
coaching, maybe at the high school level. “l’d kind oflike
to pass on the knowledge,” she said. Not surprising. If her
achievements here at W&L are any indication, there is a lot
to bequeath.

Men’s, Women’s tennis win again

By Steele Cooper

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee tennis teams both scored big
wins this week, moving closer to repeating once again their
successful seasons of the past. Saturday, the men’s team
defeated Southwestern College 6-1, and Thursday, they
defeated Hamden-Sydney College by the same score. Fri-
day, the women’s team scored their biggest win ofthe sea-
son against second—ranked Kenyon College 5-4.

Against Southwestern, singles for the Generals were
Kelly Radford, Scott Babka, Rhys James, David Lehman,
and Andrew Roberts. All three doubles teams scored wins

 

 

PAGE 

Basketball will 
miss Burghardt  

By Tod Williams

SPORTS WRITER

If a team lost its all-time leading scorer, most people i i,
would think the team would be in serious trouble. But
Chrissy Burghardt disagrees, and she should know. 
Burghardt is Washington and Lee’s all-tirne leading scorer. .

With 1,080 career points, Burghardt, a senior, leaves a
W&L as the ﬁrst General to break the thousand mark._ ,
“They’ll be others, I know,” Burghardt said, “but it’s a
great feeling to know I was the ﬁrst.” 

But Burghardt believes the team will do just ﬁne,"
next year. “[Freshman Jessica] Mentz will have to step}:
up next year, and I know [junior] Jess Morton will be a._
great captain,” she said. “[Freshman] Megan Babstif
did really well at the end of the season, so I’m'surel,'
she’ 11 do great next year.” 

Mentz said she believes the team deﬁnitely has the ‘
talent for another successful season, but it won’t be_, ,
easy. “It’s going to be such a big loss not having Chrissy,” M
Mentz said. “We’re all going to have to step up one way ,
or another next year. We’re really going to miss her J
consistency and her great leadership on the court.” ii

Burghardt came to Lexington when the Generals were ,
not riding the wave of success they now know. “I _,
deﬁnitely wanted to play, but I also wanted to go to a
good school. Some of the Division II schools I looked ,_
at might have had a little better teams at the time, but ,
the school wasn’t as good.” 0 /,

Burghardt said Coach Terri Dadio Campbell told her
she wanted to build a successful team, and Burghardt '
knows Campbell is well on her way to accomplishing.
her goal. “We’ve got a good team now. We’re not a 1,
team other schools look past anymore,” she said.

Burghardt said she liked the challenge of coming to 
a team that was in the building stages. She recalls games
when the starting ﬁve were the only ﬁve at the game,
“But it didn’t scare me,” she insists. . 

Not only did Burghardt ﬁnish her career as the all-
time leading scorer, but she also led the Generals in,
rebounds this season, averaging almost nine a game. 
That may not be a shock since Burghardt is a forward._ 
But looking at her is another story. ,_

At only 5’8", Burghardt admits she is “pretty short’.
for a forward.” That’s_ never stopped her. “All you re-0 '
ally need to do is box out,” she said. “You can play__
anywhere if you have enough heart.” 3.:

Although Burghardt may be small in the paint, she left:
another sport because she was too tall. “I didn’t start
basketball until sixth grade,” she said, “because I was into I
gymnastics.” Burghardt said she was forced out of gym-
nastics because she was too tall.

Whatever the reason Burghardt turned to basket-
ball, it was a good one. She says her biggest inﬂuence "
in her more than 11 years of playing was her father.’-
“He’s always been my biggest fan,” she said. “He came 
to most of my games, and that’s with a six-hour drive.” 4:

According to Burghardt, her time as a baller has’ ‘
passed. “I’ll got to some open gyms, but I guess I’m~ :
retired,” she said. “Looking back, I think I‘ll miss doing
things with the team most of all. We have that common
bond from times like being here over Christmas break7 ‘
when we were the only ones. I think I’ll remember those 
times more than the actual playing.” "

Baseball loses
double header If

By Tod Williams

SPORTS WRITER

The Generals fell to 6-5 on Saturday after dropping

both games of a doubleheader against Virginia Wesleyan. '
. The losses were the team’s ﬁrst since returning east of
the Mississippi from the Arizona tournament.

The Marlins took the ﬁrst game 7-2, giving General
ace senior Bob Weston his first loss this season. 
Weston, 4-1 on the season, gave up the seven runs on 
ten hits in six innings. 7

The Generals’ ﬁrst run came in the third when junior 
Andy Thompson doubled junior Russell Wrenn home. 
In the ﬁfth, junior Schuyler Marshall sacriﬁced home 
center ﬁelder junior Chris Stakem. At that point, the 17
Marlins led 5-2 and then added a run in both the ﬁfth 
and the sixth for the 7-2 win. 3

In the second game, the Generals put Stakem on the 
mound. He took the loss for the Generals, giving up seven i
runs in three and a third innings. Virginia Wesleyan scored 
eight runs in the sixth. The ﬁnal was 15-1. 

The Generals (6-5, 0-2 ODAC) will play a make-up 
game against the Lynchburg Hornets on Monday at 3 :00 

nu:-tn);

at Smith Field.

'4
:-

.‘4

A

on Saturday, as well. Doubles winners were the teams of 55
Dale Pretila/Babka, Radford/James, and Roberts/Washbum. 
It was this exact combination of winners that defeated their 
H-S C opponents on Thursday to score W&L’s second 6- 
1 win ofthe week. '3'

The W&L women’s tennis team upset ﬁerce rival 1,
Kenyon College of Friday by a 5-4 margin. This win forthe 
Generals further established W&L’s presence on the na— 
tional level. Scoring big wins for W&L were Brooke Haitzell, I‘
who defeated Kenyon’s number one seed and the second- 
ranked singles player in the nation, Erin Eggers, Melissa 
Hatley, and Manning Willard. Sealing the close victory for Z
W&L was the doubles team of Hays/Strang. '5

 

 

Humor Page

PAGE 6

Eh: filing-tum iﬂhi

AST

WORD

IDES or MARCH, 1999

lfthere ’s one word that comes to mind when I think of always feel a bit lost in our attempts to serve to such a

Lexington, it 's “diversity. " We live in a diverse community
ﬁlled with people with radically divergent interests, view-
points and talents. For that reason, we at the Last Word

wide audience. .
We've decided to stop trying to write humor (Thank
God!) Hey, I haven 't ﬁnished yet. (Sorry. ) As I was saying,

we 've decided to stop writing humor that will appeal to
everybody and start writing more audience-speciﬁc fare.
(Are you done now?) Yes. (Can I make a comment?) No.
(Come on.) Be quiet. (Please?) Go away. (Come on, just

let me say one thing and then I ’ll leave.) All right, go
ahead. (Ummm. . .) Well, what? (I forgot what I was going

to say.) Thanks a lot, you've ruined my intro. (Oh, f*** ”

the intro, just let the piece speak for itself) Good idea.

price: $0.35
or 50.7 yen
or 1.15 Euros

Study shows boring
people “in” this year

A deﬁnitive study conducted by the consulting/
auditing ﬁrm of Keegan, Goober and Wadd has shown
that boring people are the hippest group around.
“individual personalities are a deﬁnite downward
trend, as this bar graph shows. My statistical analysis
proves that those devoid of any interesting personal traits
will be considered cool this year,” said lrwin Wadd.
Preferred fashions will be anything bland —- khakis
and a plaid, button-down shirt or a blue blazer for formal
affairs. “Cool” jobs will be anything involving money.
“Investment bankers will be the rock stars of the twenty-
ﬁrst century,” said Wadd. “My numbers show that chicks

(cont. on pg. 64)
WALL STREET
WRAP-UP

Whoa, Nellie! I

It was another day of breath-tak-
ing, heart—pounding excitement on the
floor ofthe NYSE! First, the market
went up! Then it went down! Then it
went up again! Then it dropped a little
bit. Then it went up, but not up
enough to regain where it was be-
fore it dropped. Then it went up more!
Then it dropped!
That’s when the real excitement
started. By lunchtime, many analysts
thought that the market was going
to go back up. Others said it would
go down. Everyone agreed that it
would either go one way or the other.
It turns out, it went down! Then it

business in the
world working for
the same com-
pany.

A new corpo-
rate entity called
TransBioGlobal-
AmeriTechni-
ConglomeCon—
Corps will now
oversee all opera-
tions of all com-

 The C-Schooler

 

 

Three profs suspended for wild

Accounting Department Party
—Inside, pg. 3

Downsizing the competition:

the Gambino model
—Inside, pg. 7

The Christian
Right Review

“When you’re this far right it’s hard to be wrong”

Tolerance, love,

compassion: even
Jesus had bad ideas:

by Rev. Harlan Dinwiddie

Gooo AND MORAL MAN

World’s last two remaining
corporations merge

A massive merger between
TransAmeriConglomeCorps and many small, independent companies
BioGlobalTechniCon has left every to just one giant, hulking corporate

panies and most small countries.

Analysts say that the move from

V mass has ac-
tually been a
  long time

1970 ~— 540,546 businesses world- coming.
wide “H a v in g
1980-34,432 businesses worldwide one big com-
l990—-—-Timewarner. Sony, Microsoft pany is just
and Coke more efficient
1999——TransBioGlobalAmeriTechni- than all these
ConglomeConCorps _ little ones,”
said econo-

mist Miles Levin.
Trans—B ioG lobalAmeriTechn i-

Hallelujal The topic ofmy sermon today will be our
Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Now, I love the Lord Jesus
Christ as much as anyone. And I believe in the literal
interpretation of the Bible —— 2000—year-old passages
against homosexuality are enough to make me hate ‘em.

in reading the Bible, however, I have come to the
conclusion that our Lord and Savior, while omniscient,
had some really grade-A dumb ideas.

For instance, Jesus tells us to have love and compas-
sion for our fellow man. “Love thy neighbor as thyself,”
he admonishes the faithful.

Love thy neighbor as thyself? Is hejoking? What if
thy neighbor is an atheist? An abortionist? A Commu-
nist? A Unitarian? Clearly other Scripture passages that
advocate hating the preceding groups would seem to be
God’s way of vetoing Jesus’ foolish words.

Do not blame Jesus for his bad ideas, though. Re-
member that in His time, welfare was still 2000 years from

(cont. on pg. 3)

went way, way up! Then it went
down! Then it went up. Then it went
down a lot. Then it went up! Then

As expected, stock prices for
TransBioGlobalAmeri‘Techni—
ConglomeConCorps soared in the ﬁrst

ConglomeConCorps’ ﬁrst move as a
corporate entity was to fire the entire
South American continent, citing it

the market closed for the day. day on the market, primarily because as “just not cost efficient.” A corpo-
Who can stand that much excite- of the fact that it’s the only stock left rate restructuring plan went into
ment? Get me a Valium! to buy. (cont. on pg. 39)
AME 42 1"” ARH 43”’ 1"” BBC 105 1" ERA 1.235 RBI 34 HR 6 KO 54 TKO 9

 LEE!-HI 23°53
E '0

 TRUGEEE 335°
3, g salad
‘ bar

eaannne

    

Contents: P3855
The Quick 8 Easy vs. the General lee 9
Counlrv Music: here to slay? 3
Double rigs: a better way lo slaugh-
ler molorisls? 5
When an hour of sleep a day is loo
mrh 4
lkimuisameornemuilv? ‘ 3

T he Daily

I ntlepentlent

SEGA. MAGIC CARDS
HIP TRENDS FOR '99

  
 
  

BLACKBALLED
EVERYWHERE: A
TOUCHING TRUE
LIFE STORY

:  Upcoming social calendar:
CHICKS AT March 19 —— nothing

March 23 — nothing
THE COM‘ March 30 —— nothing
PUTER April 1 — nothing
HELP DESK

  

Cnoosing tne  belle for gournlext
cotillion — pg. 14

Darnnable Pope reiects Stonewall for
Saintnoocl petition again — pg. 4

 
 

DO
rninorlties ecial ort
have T00 When the only good

    
     
   
   

rnang family in town to marry
C iv l I into is yours: the state
R i g V. r5,> of inbreeding in the
— pg. 1 6

 

GROSS IICOMPGFQICQ
'E[lll® éZ&@ El®W©E@®@

The new
model J-38D

tzelroleaztzt re. tn. toilet
E ,el€n1.@Z@

aeeuééee;'

  

THIS MONTH’! FIVE MOST CREATIVE
I-'RA'l'B!NI'l'YI-ﬂ.l$ENl.IlSANCEFIlES

"PHYSICAL PLANT" - WHO DID WE
THINK WE WERE KIDDINGQ

BESTWAYSTOHEALFRWHIATI-$.83-
TPSFRQA11-EPROS

YOUR LEDERS TO THE EDITER

—— conceived and written by Kevin McManemi.n

Coincidence? We think not!

Out-of-wedlock fetus Public burnings of
slaughters (abortions) n0n-Christians

I920 l9{9 ‘i960 I980 2000 l920 1940 1960 1980 200

GHQ this Friday.

 

Friday, March 19, 8 p.m.

Friday, March 24, 8 p.m.

 
  

   
      
     

Now
printed on
recycled,

low-cal

paper.’

THE LIBERAL-
AMERICAN
Bit-vi=.i=.xLv

*”i3i" rneaning publisnecl everg otner week and
not pertaining to tne sexual or gencler—role
orientation of tnis publication, altnougn we fullg
support tne publication in ang lifestgle cnolce it
snoulcl rnaée, be it gag, lesbian, bi-sexual.
transexual, nerrnapnroclitic , asexual or even God
forbid neterosexual.

The job market bias
against Slacker-

Americans exposed
by Jamal Choi—Rodriguez

REPORTER-PERSON

In community college classrooms and at Phish con-
certs across the nation you can hear it: the cry of the
slackers. They cry out for compassion, understanding
and acceptance. They are tired of society making them
feel inferior.

“lt’s, like, totally
bogus, man,” said 28-
year-old Stoner-
American Warren
Benson. ‘‘I’m totally
discriminated against
in thejob market be-
cause I don’t want to
work.”

lt’s a sad fact that
the fascist plutocrats
who run our capital-
ist system are op-
pressing millions of
Slacker-Americans,
just as they oppress
Afro-Americans,
Womyn-Americans,
Chicano-Americans,

 

A Stoner-American left
destitute as anti-slacker
discrimination keeps him
from getting the money he
needs for marijuana

 

The Have Nots, an improv comedy group, will perform in the

Student Activities’ Office
March Comedy Series

(cont. on pg. 5)

GHQ The Have Nots

GHQ Randy Riggle

.,......_.-.... ... ....,. ., m ....z

 

