  U112 ﬂing-tumlﬂhi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNivERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

VOLUME 101, NO. 15

l\/ISA throws
«Cabaret party

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1999

By Erica Prosser
F1-IA TURES EDITOR

This past weekend, the Minority
Student Association celebrated 30
years of black student representation
by throwing a Jazz Cabaret and party
to rival Fancy Dress itself.

“I had a great time,” senior Nadiyah
Howard said about the event. “It was
lots of fun.”

The cabaret and DJ party held Sat-
urday night were part of the weekend
festivities designed to highlight the
contributions made by blacks and
other minorities at Washington and
Lee over the past three decades. This
was the first weekend of this type, and
it gave students and alumni a chance
to meet, network, mingle and talk about
school and jobs.

“We’re trying to establish a rela-
tionship between the undergraduate
students and the alumni,” senior and

_ MSA president Brian Jamison said.

The Black History Jazz Cabaret, a
semi-formal, invitation-only event
hosted in the Hampton Inn Col Alto
Ballroom, brought student leaders,
faculty and alumni together to enjoy
the music and celebrate the heritage.
The MSA sent invitations to various
student leaders, faculty departme t

heads, administrators, food service
and bookstore staff and alumni, and
members also gave out invitations to
other students they thought would
enjoy the festivities. The Bernard
Harrison Jazz Ensemble performed
with smooth jazz tunes from 7:30 p.m.
to 11 p.m.

“We had a great tumout,” said se-
nior Shanntonette Wade of the suc-
cessful event. “Dean Howison was
there, Dean McCloud  a lot of people
came.”

The weekend fun did not stop with
the cabaret, though. At 11 p.m., right
after the Jazz Cabaret, the MSA
hosted the 01’ School Party, a DJ party
at the Pavilion that was open to the
entire student body. Students partied
until 3 a.m.

“Several different colleges were
represented at the party,” Wade said.

The weekend turned out to be a
great success, thanks to the efforts of
the MSA.

Though future events of this type
will probably not be this large, plans
are in the works for more festivities
nextyear.

“The plan is for us to do something
like this every year,” Wade said,
“something for the students and
alumni and faculty to get together ”

0i0 COGS)’ ha

Senior Travis Mells and sophomore Shari Henderson chat at
the Minority Student Association Cabaret on Saturday night.

On Friday afternoon, Habitat
For Humanity broke ground on
Project Horizon’s battered
women’s shelter, which will be lo-
cated on Vamer Street. Construc-
tion will be completed during the
weekends of March 13-14 and 20-

21 with the help of Lexington residents
and students from W&L and VMI.
Habitat For Humanity is still look-
ing for more volunteers to get involved
with the project. “We need people who
are willing to come out and actually
stay and put the skills we’ve taught

Habitat for Humanity breaks
ground on Horizon safe house

them to use,” sophomore and Habitat
Secretary Tim Koss said.

“It’s going to be a really worthwhile
project,” Koss said. “We believe that
people will come away with a feeling
of enrichment.”

For those interested in volunteer-

oo b Elly Bames/PhotoEditor

ing to help with the project, a train-
ing session will be held on March
13 and 14. Contact acting Habitat
President senior Josh Beckham at
x4254 for more information.

“I think this is really going to be
a lot of fun,” Koss said.

W&L goes postal with 20¢ card

By Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

Ever wonder just what a philatelist
is?

Not even a little bit?

As Washington and Lee University
celebrates the first day of issue of its
very own postcard this Thursday, Lex-
ington will no doubt be full of philat-
elists -— also known as postage stamp
collectors.

The 20-cent postcard is part of the
United States Postal Service’s Historic
Preservation series, and features a full-
color image of the Colonnade taken
by university photographer Patrick
Hinely.

“What will be of interest to collec-
tors is the opportunity to receive a
first day of issue program and the
hand-canceled stamped card,” Neil-
Penick, director of W&L’s 250"‘ Ob-
servance, said. “This is really a spe-
cial event for the University.”

A ceremony will be held at 2 p.m.
Thursday in Lee Chapel, where post-
cards will be hand-canceled for attend-
ees —— which has the possibility of
increasing the value of the postcards.

“February 1 1th is the only day the _
postcards will be hand-canceled, pro-
ducing several variations which is
what collectors are going after,” W&L
communications writer Louise
Uffelman said. “If there’s an error, par-

ticularly on just some of them, [the
postcards] will be worth some money
in the future.” ‘

According to Uffelman, postcards
will be made available after the cer-
emony ‘to students who would like
them.

The remaining cards, which will be
distributed though Virginia post of-
ﬁces, will be canceled by machine. The
W&L postcard will be a regional is-
sue limited to a press run of six mil-
lion.

The Colonnade appeared previ-
ously on a three-cent stamp in 1949,
which commemorated the University’s

' bicentennial. This was the first time

that a university was featured by the

Postal Service on a stamp.

According to Uffelman, the pro-
cess of being granted the postcard
began three years ago, with the plan-
ning of the bicenquinquagenary, and
was helped along by such alumni as
Sen. John Warner ’49, Rep. Bob
Goodlatte, and John Nolan ’70, a former
Postmaster of New York City.

Larry Creamer, Postmaster of Lex-
ington, will preside over the ceremony
that includes the Virginia Military In-
stitute color guard, and remarks by
someone who never could tell a lie —
George Washington. Old George, as
well as members of the presiding party,
will also be available to autograph the
postcards following the ceremony.

00 C011 CS)’ ml _V Ollil UC

D-hall observe Groundhog
Day with ‘Road Kill’ theme

(above) University Dining Services sponsored a theme
dinner last Tuesday entitled “Road Kill Buffet” in honor of
Groundhog Day. Entrees included a rabbit dish called
“Thumper a la Bumper,” an ostrich dish called “Broiled
Ostrich” and a chicken dish called “Road Kill Rooster.”
According to Evans Dining Hall Coordinator of
Departmental Marketing Emily Donahue, “It was great.
Students had fun; I had fun. The second annual Road Kill
Buffet was quite»successful.”

Sophomore Leadership
Council honors co-op staff

(below) The Sophomore Leadership Council sponsored
Staff Appreciation Day for co-op employees on Jan. 27.
Under the cover of the night, SLC members, with the help
of W&L Security, sneaked into the co-op building, and left
each member of the co-op staff an African violet and one
big ‘Thank You’ card. The card thanked the co-op staff for
being so good to students. “We were all very touched by
their thoughtfulness,” Assistant Manager Judy Sensabaugh

said.

OPINION:

diversity article

W&LIEE:

SPORTS:

LAST WORD:

@112 ﬂting-tum Iﬂhi

February 8, 1999 4

Letter to the editor questions Honor System,
survival tips for Mardi Gras, students comment on

Dancing at W&L (Can you swing it?), student
meets her fiance’ online

Men’s basketball loses in overtime

Valentine’s Day cards for any kind of sweetheart

PAGE 3

0

PAGE 4

PAGE 5

PAGE 6

 

 

er  

,f"(:i  1' 1...‘/8’
7) FY .. £1/“
 5 J
9. ,: » I
 ‘'‘-r K‘: .5-5 ‘
.s”l~7‘"?
!Ii 1 r

 

4?"

GENERAL NOTES

E-mail General Notes to phi@wlu.edu

NYSE President

returns to campus

William R. Johnston '61, president
and chief operating ofﬁcer of the New
York Stock Exchange, will speak in Lee
Chapel on Thursday, Feb. 1 1 at 7:30

250"‘ Bulletin: Women’s

Sports Come to W&L

Women arriving in the fall of 1985
grabbed their first intercollegiate vic-
tory just three weeks after arriving on
campus, when the cross-country team
outran West Virginia State.

The new undergrads also set their
sights at starting a soccer team. When
told by people they would need at third
of their class to comprise a team, they
did just that.

Women’s swimming began that
ﬁrst year with just three swimmers, but

P I @112 Iﬁittg-tum lﬂlii

amazingly sent one to the NCAA Div,
III Championships. Tennis, women’s

5 lacrosse, volleyball and basketball
each went on to be leaders in the
ODAC conference and their success
continues today.

Theater department
presents ‘Nightingale’

The ﬁnal performances of “The Ec-
centricities of A Nightingale” will be
tonight, tomorrow and Wednesday at
8 p.m. in the Lenfest Center's Johnson
Theater.

p.m. Johnston’s lecture is titled “W&L

and the NYSE: Marketplaces of Infor-
mation and Ideas.”

He is a member of the board of trust-
ees of Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, from which he graduated in 1961
with a B.S. in Commerce.

This lecture is sponsored by the
Contact Committee.‘

I-Club takes students

on an ‘Evening Abroad’
The International Club will present

its annual Evening Abroad on Thurs-

day, Feb. 25 at 8 p.m. in the GHQ.

 

A
war. -:,(;0,.x
Valentine /Q

Personals

I saw you at the Palms. Can I buy you
a drink? You’ll know me by my smile.

Scotty, I love you bunches! Have a J
great Valentine’s Day, Honey!
AMLA, Erica ‘ 4

My Dearest PP Baby, Happy
Valentine’s Day! Thank you for mzrk- ‘
ing me so happy... you mean the world
to me. I love you times inﬁnity! Q
Yours Forever, POOP DAWG

You’re in a frat and my history class. I
like your khakis (and you!), Need an
FD date? Give me a call.

 
 

Great Hall
of the Science Center
11 amuntil ,3 pm, ,

Danica, my buttercup,

My love for you is unconditional.
Happy Valentine’s Day!

Your hummingbird, Rob

Blond boy wearing jeans: You caught
my eye in the computer lab and
“loaded” happiness into. r_ny'heart.

FRANKS PIZZA

Delivery Special
463-7 5 7 5

Hot and Cold Subs — Salads — Dinners — Calzones

 

30 Minute Delivery
10 Minute Pick-Up
Please Mention This Flyer When Calling In An Order

FEBRUARY 8, 1999 ,. E

_ Tliére’s'a whole world
out there. ’
Explore it with Contiki

. ,..'<l.‘_.,.;. (kids. Great atlviite.

— ‘M<¢.rs.°r‘=: ~ 
London $l24
Madrid $|96
Vienna $238
Paris $200

Fare: m lrom wuinnpon DC.nch wry based
on 1 RT purtluxe. Fares do not Include uni.
which an roul between S) and $lO.Int'I Student
ID mt] be mqurredfaru are valid lor departure;
in Mirth and are rub er (0 change.Reirrv<uoni
apply. Call Tor our low manic um and lire: to

 

“HOME OFTHE watuois topic. A _
ma: DRAFT BEERAILWEEK LONG-CALI. roniinroi .
, V1"84"OO",'4lV-l8i8"8828 . . I I
wvvvv.sandpiperbeacon._corn (frates per person) s V, I p
17403 FRONT B'EAC|:lmR(_3hAD_- PA’[\l_A'/v\A _ClTY BEAcbi-i_,_F‘tv_32__-113‘

  

24 S. Jefferson Street
Lexington, VA 24450
Between The Palms

& Domino"s Pizza

WE FIND IT FOR
BELOW LIST PRICE

“The biggest small guy in town who
~ 6 Cali get you any music you want

izsr i<£c'”i>AI%‘Tir"'i=‘ '5.

464-4050

Academic couple seeks:

ﬂllll THE BEST THEN Bllll THE BEST!

. «sin! USA SPRING BREAK

   EGG DONOR

BAHAMAS .
PANAMA our »

ﬂllll EIIII IITIII BEST PIIIITE liIIllllAl|'I'EEl = I

JOIN US FOR THE Wl_LDEST
PARTi,Es.onr_ THE P|.Al‘lET!

EAT 8. Tllllllll Ellll EIIEE!"

for clinic in VA/NC region: Cau-
casian woman, 21-30, nonsmoker,
college degree or higher, solid
SAT scores, at least 5’8”, lean/
athletic build, dark complexion]
hair, even-featured face, excellent
health/teeth/skin/eyesight. Right
candidate will be well-compen-=
sated and asked to provide pho-

      

  
    

  

ALL TRIPS |NCLUDE:

* OTEL -
$833312}: ?§'f\NsFERs.. Z,(§'fLHTT,fXHE5 tos. Please send letter along with
§'l’,‘,'jf,,,‘:,f,?,':’,lc,"C“k‘,,‘,_3,§, W HZ’;,,P,‘§,?;:,§ﬁ:_°KAGE ! background, education, and mo-

V tivation. for doin this to: POB
. 1-883-777-4642 E

425545, Cambridge, MA 02142.

www.usaspringbreak.coni .
I I All serious replies answered.

 

   

 ¢

PEITBIITS’ TSTEITTEE

llewlil llenniiated

Free HBO Willi Remote

E No sinuﬁiirg Resins

Free conrineniaireairiasr

 

w ,_
LEXINGTON. VA _4~"w":a0

 ~ FEB 09

 
   
 

 
    

other world wide den-nations.
Don‘: iorget (0 order your Eunrlpau!

5 . I *

Travel

CIEE: Council on International
Ediicntioniil Exchange

l-800-2Council *

‘Ix:

Ope-ii 10 a.m. - 9 p.m.
l\/ionday - Friday i»
ll a.m. -- 5 p.m.

Saturday

,9;

csumzzzer
{DII2[)[:(,’.Kl’!(ZIIf Qnpor/ut112’1'es.7

I
Surniner.lotis at Washington and Lee University

Counselors for Summer Sctroiars

June 30-July 31, I999

Summer Scholars is a four-week academic program
for 150 rising !‘~igl‘r school seniors. Counselors serve ,
as resident advisors for 10 students in Graham—Lees
dormitory and plan evening and weekend activities.
Applicatidii deadline is Feb. 24. 1999.

Special Programs Resident Assistants

June 15-Aug. 3, 1999

The Office of Special Programs employs 5 W&L
students to serve as Resident Assistants for a wide
variety of Special Programs including Alumni Colleges,
Elderhostel, and adult conferences. Duties include
housekeeping, attending all meals with guests, bar
receptions, and shuttle driving. An outgoing person-
ality is a must. Application deadline is March 3 l, 1999.

For more infomiatiorr, please contact the Office wt‘
Special M ognams. Howard House, 463-9723.

  
 
 
  
  
   
   
  
       
         
    
    
        
   
     

. 2'4-
’ ,,t t.

    €Ll3

‘ ‘ 7:‘!
'ewefry A

 

FEBRUARY 8, 1999

O oN

PAGE 3

Student enraged with honor system injustice

To the Editor.

This weekend, the Executive Corn-
mittee found a student guilty of an
honor violation I never knew was a
crime. And I would place a bet that

‘most of you reading this never thought

it was “wrong” either. In fact, I know
many of us have done just what this
student was fotmd guilty of doing —-
“stealing” from the dining hall.

The basics ofthe case are all you
needtokrrowtoexarnineyourowncul-
pability. The student used another
student’s card to swipe and eat off the
ﬁeshmanmealplan. Theﬁeshrnan vol-
untarily gave the other student their
card because the freshman was not
eatingthere forthatmeal, and sothe
meal, theoretically, was going to waste.
In another instance, the “guilty” stu-
dent shared food off a student’s plate
—— clariﬁed, one student ate their meal,
and the other ate the leftovers that were
going to be thrown away.

How many of us out there are
“guilty” of this too? When I thought
aboutallthetirnesIguessIhavevio-
lated the Honor Code (as the EC deter-

mined how it apples to the dining hall),
itmademereali2ethatthis“guilty” stu-
dentwasthe scapegoat, caught inaweb
of mistmderstanding and common prac-
tice.

Whataboutall the times I forgot my
card and the swiper let me go through
the line without writing down my name
or number?

What about the times when the
swipe machine was unattended and I
either didn’t have my card or for some
reason, the machine said I didn’t have
any meals left when I thought I did? I
went ahead and got my food and never
gave it a second thought. My meals are
paidforalreadysolﬁguredthed-hallis
getting its money anyway.

What aboutthe time when I brought
my parents with me for breakfast and I
got them cups of coffee, some fruit and
my mom shared my bagel? Three of us
ate off my one meal swipe.

What about the time my best friend
ﬁom home was visiting and I wantedto
show her the d-hall? I swiped twice,
and I thought that deducted ﬁom my
meal plan and that she was paid for.

What about all the times I got extra
frozen yogtut or juice or Gatorade or
fruit or cereal or bagels and took them
back to the dorms to eat later?

What about the times my friends
have been sick with the ﬂu or too
hungover to make it to brunch, so I got
breakfast for them and took it back?

What about the time I had metings
in the University Center and during the
breakslgrabbedadr1'nk(inoneofthose
plastic d-hall cups)? I took it out of the
d-hall without swiping because it was
between meals, and all I really wanted
was a 

How many of us have done these
same things? How many of us are now
considered “guilty” of an honor viola-
tion? I would guess the majority of us
who take classes on the hill, or gradu-
ate with a Washington and Lee diploma,
have done some “offense” against the
d-hall, without knowing it

It’s a shame that this student was
the sacriﬁcial lamb for us all. His case
was a test, pushing the Honor System
into the realm of Sunday brunch and
Tuesday night dinner. We have all paid

ourduestothe dining hall. Otuparents
hadno choicebuttobuy intothatfull
ﬁeshman meal plan, and because of that,
I felt entitled to do the things I have
done. I never thought of those actions
as dishonorable or stealing because
hundreds of d-hall meals have gone
wasted in my years here.

There’s nothing to be done, no way
to protest this injustice. The EC has
delivered their verdict, and the dining
hall has our meal plan money whehter
we choose ot eat there again or not. I
just felt I should warn you, because
almost all of us have committed these
“crimes.”

Anonymous.

P.S. I submitthis letterto the Editor
anonymously because in our Honor
System, I feel like there is no guarantee
against incriminating yourself. That
goes against our constitutional rights
ascitizensoftheUnited States,andfur-
thermore, it prevents us ﬁom speaking
out against the Executive Committee
and the Honor System. Something is
obviously wrong with this tradition.

In the Shadow of the Chapel

by Erica Prosser

 

W&L conversation hearts

GEORGE INvrrr-:s You To
1 THE FrRsr DAY or Issur: 01-‘
THE U.S.P.S.
PosrcARn CEREMONY
HoNoRrNc THE
2501}: ANNIVERSARY
or WASHINGTON AND LEE
THURSDAY, FEB. 11, 2 P.M.
LEE CHAPEL

HoNoRr-:n GuEsr
GEORGE WASHINGTON

IN! I999

@112 ‘ﬁling-mm iﬂhi

Executive Editors Tarah Grant
Hollister llovey
News Editors Polly Doig
* John Stewart

W&Liﬁ: Editors Giger Phillips

- Erica Prosser

Stephanie Bianeo
Stephen Pesee
Frances Groherg
Kevin Mewlanenrin
Sarah Meldrarn
Meredith Mlynar
Emily Barnes

Opinions Editors

Sports Editor
1 Last Word Editor
Copy Editor:

Photo Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
h undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editors, but The Ring-tum Phi is
)1 otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
‘ tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “Talkback” do not
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
I court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
j Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049

Fax: (540) 462-4059

E-mail: phi@wIu.edu

http://wlu. edu/-phi

Annual subsription rate: 330

 

Survival tips for New Orleans Mardi Gras

This year we get to

thank the parents of
Washington and Lin-
coln for providing the
rest of the cotmtry with
a holiday that corresponds with the fantastic carnival sea-
son. For anyone headed down to New Orleans this weekend,
the following tips and reminders might prove helpﬁrl in maxi-
mizing the incredible adventure you are about to take.
—First of all, you’ve seen bare breasts, right? So don’t
spend all your time on Bourbon Street. Deﬁnitely don’t
miss the city’s most notoriously naughty thoroughfare.
Go to Pat O’Brien’s. Have a few Hurricanes. Hell, you can
even buy a few $1 shots from that sketchy guy on the
comer. You won’t be able to ﬁnd a bathroom, so ﬁnd a side
street, make sure no cops are around and let it all go.
——W&L students are all familiar with the term “pre—party.”
Be prepared to do lots of it. Remember that wherever you
are trying to go, and whatever you are trying to see, mil-
lions of other tourists are looking to go to the same places
and see the same things. So get there EARLY with lots of
Dixie and stay LATE with even more.

—The ATM machines at Fidelity banks don’t charge a
service fee for Crestar ATM cards. Stay away ﬁ'om Whitney
— $2.50! I’m not familiar with First Union’s cards, sorry.
—Looking for lunch? Have a fried seafood po-boy at
Mother’s Restaurant on the comer of Poydras and
Tchoupitoulas.

——Since you probably haven’t seen enough images of
General Lee, take a streetcar ride from Lee Circle (St. Charles
and Howard Ave). Travel all the way to Carrollton Ave.,
enjoying the beautiful uptown architecture all the way down
St. Charles. Finish off at Madigan’s and have a few drinks
with some 12-year-olds.

—Get a daquiri at any one of the drive-thru daquiri places.
—Do not buy Mardi Gras beads.

  
 

Off His ROCk€I'
3 Stephen Pesoe ’O1

-—Stroll through Lake Lawn Metairie Cemetery, original
resting place of Jefferson Davis (removed by his wife Varina
upon the burial of P.G.T. Beauregard because the two
couples didn’t get along all that well).

—The cops are busy, stressed, over-worked and under-
paid. Be nice to them. Do what they say without asking
questions.

—Beware of wrong truns. Bad neighborhoods seem to
appear out of nowhere.

——Brennan’s, Antione’s, Galitoire’s, Commander’s —— eat
at one of these places and bring your Visa card because . .
. well, you know.

—Remember that you got your shoes on your feet.

—A good place to settle down for the evening is Fat Harry’s
at 4330 St. Charles Ave. just oﬁ‘Napolean Ave., next store
to Copeland’s restaurant (a great place for a meal).

——It’s late, or early, depending on how you look at it. You
need something in your stomach. Stop at Cafe du Monde
(Decatur and St. Ann) for an order of beignets / ben yays
/, a cup of coffee and a 15-cent paper hat.

—Watch out for the pot holes.

—Bu_ild up an appetite and go to The Central Grocery for a
whole Muﬁelatta.

—See the Village People and Kool and the Gang Saturday
night in the Krewe of Endymion celebrating eternal youth
and 300 years of Mardi Gras. Check out the largest ﬂoat in
Mardi Gras history, Captain Eddie’s S.S. Endymion, an 80-
yard long superﬂoat carrying more than 200 riders, a
$100,000 Bose sound system and more than a million feet
of ﬁberoptic lighting.

—Next Sunday don’t miss Bacchus, Jim Belushi and his
reign as the god of wine as he and his krewe celebrate
Jules Verne with a four-mile stroll through the city.
—Monday night, see Orpheus’s hope ﬂoats canying Harry
Connick, Jr., and Sandra Bullock as the krewe of music and
merriment celebrates Opening Night at the French Opera

House.
—Adrnire the beautiful Fambeaux carriers by throwing
quarters.

—Find your spot along St. Charles early on Tuesday mom- '

ing. Make friends with any of a number of the groups of
overweight, classy young gentlemen with a keg in the back
of mom’s old station wagon and a homemade portable toi-
let (the two go together like red beans and rice).
-24-hour Trolley Stop Café! Belgian waffles, omlettes,
steak and eggs, Southern gravy! You are in for a true late
night treat.

—Go see the Zulu king and queen, but don’t try to ﬁnd
them down on St Claude and Dumaine.

—Keep an ear out for the incredible St. Augustine march-
ing band. WOW!

—Order jarnbalya with a meal and understand why your
friends from Louisiana refuse to eat the D-Hall’s rendition
of the plate.

—As for parking: Good Luck! Let me know if you come up
with a solution. Your best bet is to park at a friend’s house
and walk, which reminds me — always wear comfortable
shoes, which you got on your feet.

—If anyone tells you not to do anything stupid, ignore
them. Have fun, and enjoy yourself.

  uote of the week

"ﬁn-re

(I
I like little boys with no hair.

— Anonymous sophomore girl
looking for a Valentine

1}

wzrv

 

 

W K E ramgaum an .
 FEBRUARY 8, 1999 ’

Dancing brings culture,pleasure to W&L 

i .

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

E,W&L students
‘,than ever find ‘

Classes ranging from swing and shag to ballet and Spanish dancing have taken the W&L campus by storm

W-»TBy Elianna Marziani
S'm1:'F WRITER

; There’s a whole lot ofdancing going on at Washington
and Lee University. There has always been dancing at the
Friday and Saturday night band and DJ parties at frater-
nity houses, but dancing at W&L has expanded recently
to include everything from big band dancing such as swing
and shag to ethnic Spanish dancing to more conservative
fomrs of dance such as ballet.

.» The University has sponsored several types of dance classes
and dance instructor Frank Roupas has come in from the outside
world to lead W&L students in swing, fox trot, waltz, cha-cha,
samba, mambo, tango, merengue and ballroom dancing. Span-
ish language assistant Yolanda Charlan is teaching classes in the
traditional flamenco style and W&L Dance offers classes in ev-
erything from ballet andjazz to tap and funk.

Why is dance suddenly so popular? Owen Barker, direc-
tor of student activities, explained that the emergence of
dance fonns such as swing at W&L is not surprising.

“The explosion ofswing dance is something
that is happening all
over the country,”

Barker said.
“Music is very cy-
clical," he said. “The resur-
gence ofthe big band era is natu-
rally leading to a revival in the
type of dance that went along with
that music.”
As for the interest in other, more tradi-
tional dances such as ballroom dancing,
Barker said, “Many young ladies at «-
W&L are going through their debutante
seasons and are thus learning or taking
-refresher courses in the dances to accom-
pany the obligations of this period.”
While both of these
reasons for why more

 

1themselves’_,:'.

Edancing

ilocelyn Bowman put it best when she said, “It’s

r
r

the
night away are enlightening, perhaps sophomore

just fun I "
SWING: JUMP, JrvE AND WAIL

Bowman participates in the University—sponsored swing
classes that senior Christine Bragg andjunior Heather Reid
have been teaching for the past two weeks. With swing
being one of the types of music to grace this year‘s Fancy
‘Dress Ball, interest in it has grown signiﬁcantly on campus.

Swing dancing originated with the Shag, the South
Carolina state dance and a traditional southern dance.
‘While Barker is planning to organize
a shag class in the spring, swing is in
the spotlight at W&L now.

Barker said, “At the beginning ofthe year, one thing I

' “”“’~“”*;3=.*<=srat¢2¥‘5%"*‘v’3

lwanted to do was to offer free swing classes.”

In October be reserved Doremus Gym for fournights in both

Elanuary and February, planning to offer one class for 40 people.

i
L
1

Campus Notices announced the openings for the swing
classes at 2 p.m. on Jan. 13. Within an hour and a half of
this e—mail, all 40 slots had been taken. Two days after he
sent out the e-rnail. Barker had more than 150 requests to
join the class.

As a result. Barker‘ created two additional swing classes.

 
  
 

Now there are two beginners’ classes and one advanced I

class that accommodate a total of 160 people. The first
three classes have gone very well, according to many par-
ticipants, and the last lesson is scheduled for Feb. 8.

The students taking these classes are very excited about
them. Sophomore Renee Harper had her reasons for sign-
ing up for the course.

“I thought it was a neat opportunity to learn swing,”
she said. “It’s awesome, it’s fun to learn and to practice,
and it’s really a gift to the students who are participating.

“It’s totally awesome of Owen Barker to have orga-
nized these classes for the students. I have always wanted
to learn how to swing dance, but I don’t know ifl would
have pursued classes else-
where,” Harper said.

 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
    
 
  
   
    
  
    
   
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Bow-
m a n
echoed
the high
praises of the
swing classes,
when she said,
“It’s just great fun
and really laid back.
I love the instructors
and am having a great
time learning the basics
of swing.”

Barker was pleasantly
surprised with the suc-
cess of the classes.

“I really had no idea
it would go over this
well,” he said.

Because of the fantas-
tic response, he is con-
sidering offering more

swing classes in the
spring along with classes
in shag dancing.

 
 

SEVILLANAS, A NATIVE
DANCE or SPAIN

While the oldie but goodie
dances from earlier in the century
are coming back in vogue, more ex-
otic dances are taking hold of little Lex-
ington as well.
Yolanda Charlan, a native language

classes in the sevillanas, a traditional
dance originating from southern Spain.
The natives of southern Spain cel-
ebrate the feria de abril, a week-long fes-
tival during which everyone lives in
tents, dances the sevillanas, drinks
sherry made locally and eats traditional
foods of the area.

The sevillanas is a dance consisting
of four steps in three periods.

“It’s the most typical dance in Spain ——
it’s a tradition!” Charlan said.

She describes it as a sensual dance in
which one moves the arms in rhythm with

the legs, “always creating shapes in

the movements.”
A ""'” “It’s also a way to ﬂirt,” Charlan
added.

One might wonder how such a unique dance became part
of the W&L student activities portfolio. It all started last
year when another language assistant wanted to share this
unique cultural experience with her students, and members
of the VMI and Lexington community who wanted to learn.

After seeing the great excitement generated by
sevillanas and the large student involvement in it last year,
Ellen Mayock, professor of romance languages, asked
Charlan if she would consider teaching a class this year.

Charlan was eager to take up the offer, and the ﬁrst two

student wants to help reduce those I
statistics. Sophomore lessica Parrillo
is amember of the Leukemia Society of '
America’s Team inTraining,a group of
runners devoted to raising money for
cancer research. . as I . A :3
More than 16,500 runners frgm
’, all over the country will meet in  if 5 enjoying‘, sdoin g
Diego, Calif. on May23 tonm amgara-V ~ ,‘rhgjg‘~»bec,_aus’ej2-‘,1
then in honor of cancerlpatients.» I , "know“that:_I scan
“Each runnerruns inthenameofa ihilfeip; .so“ nrarty

health for granted
suffering’ from

ribleasleukernia

raise at least $3,000. This tasklhas‘
proven to be somewhat daunting,
but that will not stop Parrillo from
reaching hergoal. ‘

Sophomore,rungrace 

By Ginger Phillips <   ii-All  .
FEATURESEDITOR  mad‘’ ‘"3. F‘?-1’z"’
leukerniaisthenumberonedimse tant in life,”’ ‘she 

killerofchildren ages 1-14 anditstrikes said.r,“I  “ -

ten times as many adults. One W&L  people ioﬂenitake .

things like their
while, others I are l

‘ sornethingqas ter-
“;I. am really.

* Participants rnltheirogig
_»grr1‘oney to help ﬁnd aj‘cure_ rot» '

’ leukemia patient,” Parrillo said. “It is people,”,she  . .» . _
such an honor to run for them. When~ ‘ , Parrillo,I:ielieves‘tl‘iat‘‘this is also a per- fmmpiaces
ever 1 think about how hardit is to run feet oppoiitunitylfor others to help in me’
arnarathon,Ijustthinkaboutthelittle fight against  shehas organized a

, girl that I’m doingthis for.” raﬁleto help herreach her goal. .

Before she can run, Parrillo must _ ,q. ,‘.‘I thought ﬂtatiﬂre raffle would be a

fgreatway to students and the commu-
nity involvedwith helping cancer research
. andhave alittlefun atthe same time,” she
said. “There arelsorne really great prizes I

r’ like the‘ four year-old  ﬂia

; other '
tacting Jessiealharijill 2’

assistant from Madrid, is offering ’

 
     
     

weeks of classes have been an enormous success. Almost
30 students attended the first class, and many students
found it to be a great experience, chatting about it in an
electronic forum for one of Mayock’s Spanish classes.
“It’s another facet to
the students’ education,

She met Moore, however, and learned about W&L
Dance. Now she is able to take classes in the Lenfest Cen-
ter when her schedule permits.

“It is kind of diﬁicult in college, since this isn’t an art school,
to pursue dance as seri-
ously as I might like,”

making them feel more like Corhhs said_

they’re part of the actual Bejchercahohh, teach

culture,” Mayock said. the girls once a week, so
“For me to get them me;-egtoftheﬁmethe Stu-

in touch with my culture dents have to organize

is great,” Charlan said. themselves and he taught
Aside from all the by the mom experienced

educational value, inthe group.

Mayock Said» “W5 lust Facilities also present

reﬁll)’ 000! t0 d0!” a problem for these bal-

The students love it,
too. “It cracks them up to
be doing it,” Mayock said,
“to see friends and pro-
fessors doing it, to have
to strike a macho pose or
a gypsy pose.”

Many students are
taking the class because
they will be going to
Spain in the spring and
believe Mayock’s asser-
tion that “you can’t be
cool in Spain and not
know sevillanas.”

Charlan, who is enjoy-
ing learning from others’
talents by taking classes
in modem and jazz dance,
is excited to be able to of-
fer this class for anyone
who is interested and
hopes that more students
will want to get involved in this multi-cultural adventure.

' Knowledge of the Spanish language is not necessary to
participate in the sevillanas classes, and a schedule of
classes can be accessed from the W&L Spanish
department’s home page.

THE TrMELEss APPEAL or BALLET

While many students are going exotic and trying new
dances like sevillanas, other students are enjoying more
traditional, conservative forms of dance like ballet.

W&L Dance is a student organization that offers night classes
for a variety of different dance forms from jazz to modern. The
group was originally created, however, for ballet.

Senior Sarah Moore teaches many of the W&L Dance ballet
classes. Missie Belcher, a dance instructor at Lexington Dance
Studio, also teaches one club class each week, in addition to a
ballet-for-P.E.-credit class through the University.

Sophomore Faith Collins has enjoyed the opportunity
to continue her study of ballet at W&L. A 14-year student
of ballet, Faith had planned on taking ballet classes in town.

“Swingers” Stephen Pesce ’01 and his date dance
the night away at the 250th Ball. The 150 students
currently participating in the W&L swing classes
will soon be ready to show off their new moves at
the Fancy Dress Ball on March 5.

let dancers. Anyone
who has taken ballet in
the Lenfest Center’s Re-
hearsal Hall can tell you
that the set-up is not
ideal. The bars and mir-
rors are not in the cor-
rect places and the ﬂoor
is not quite suited for se-
rious ballet work.

For dancers, how-
ever, these problems,
while frustrating, are
not enough to stop the
dancing.

“You don’t want to
see something as beau-
tiful as ballet die,”
Collins said. “W&L
Dance is really improv-
ing and getting better.
Each year we see more
participation.”

The group performs a recital at the end of each year,
incorporating all the forms of dance represented in the
group into one perfomrance.

Collins expressed frustration atthe apparent lack of interest in
dance displayed by some members of the W&L community.

“You’d think at W&L, there’d be more interest in see-
ing those forms of art grow,” Collins said. “I think that

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

ail

dancing is the purest form of art. It involves music and the 

human body. You use every single part of your body. When
you can do it and do it right, it is the most beautiful thing
ever — it’s almost defying limits.”

' Dancing truly does defy limits, whether they be limits of grav-
ity, deﬁed by female swing dancers who are swung up into the air
as though they weigh nothing, or limits ofthe human body (do
ballerinas’ legs truly belong up by their ears?).

With swing and ballroom dancing, sevillanas, ballet
and the huge variety of other dances perfomied by W&L
Dance, and all the exciting classes awaiting students in
spring term, there are plenty of opportunities for students
to jump on the bandwagon and dance, dance, dance.

Just be careful not to step on your partner’s toes.

Log on to wWw.loVe.c0m

By Erica Prosser
FEATURES EDITOR

Ah, the Internet. A wonderful place to learn things, do
research, meet people 

Wait! You shriek. People you meet on the Internet are
stalkers and axe murderers!

Well, that’s true of some ‘net users, but not everyone. If
you’ve ever opened Netscape, YOU’ RE a ‘net user. So am
I. In fact, I met my ﬁance on the Internet.

It’s true. Want to know
the details? Read on.

Most people meet
through chat rooms, like
those on America Online©.
Chat rooms are just places
into which you can wander,
places full of people talk-
ing about any one of an in-
ﬁnite number of topics.

It’s only natural that
people with similar tastes
who meet in these rooms
will start e—mailing each
other personally. E-mail is
great for getting to know

P°°P1e ‘”ith°“t actually Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan star in “You’ve Got Mail,”
ha"mg‘° k"°w them‘ They a movie about ﬁnding true love on the Internet.

could be lying about them-
selves, that’s true. But nothing says you have to meet these
people in person. So chat rooms are a great place to start.

Now we come to the way that I met Scott (my ﬁance):
Internet personal ads. It was late on a Saturday night last
May, and I was ready to see what kind of weirdos this
electronic medium could introduce.

I put out an ad in Yahoo! for the St. Louis area that said,
basically, “I’m coming home for the summer, I was wonder-
ing what kind of interesting people live in my area, yada
yada yada.” My only contact information was my Yahoo!
e—mail address.

The response was staggering, but only one ad was re-
ally scary. From the initial replies, I e-mailedsome of the
people. I had no real interest in meeting any of them in
person, but sometimes, the thought of doing that (which
was decidedly risky, as everyone knows) was a bit of a thrill.

When I went home in June, I arranged to meet one per-

    

son, Travis, IRL (in real life). When you meet an Internet
person, always meet in a public place with plenty of people,
right? Well, my parents were terriﬁed on my behalf, so they
insisted that Travis (a local college student and jazz guitar-
ist) come to our house to get me so they could get a look at
him. Luckily, he put up with that.

Ultimately, we didn’t get along well enough to keep in
touch, but I had done it. I had met someone from the Intemet.
The world was my oyster.

Scott was the only other person I met from the ‘net.
Again, my parents in-
sisted that he come to the
house, saying, “He could
be an ax murderer! We
have to meet him and get
his license plate number!”
He humored them.

Scott is a computer
programmer (ofcourse) in
downtown St. Louis, and
we hit it right off. We had
an uncanny number of
things in common, and
things went really well. I
even affectionately call
him “Ax Murderer,” for
the ‘net person he might
have been. The wedding,
incidentally, is set for Sep-

Photo courtesy www.darkhorizons.com

tember 25 of this year.

Yes, I was one of the lucky ones. I met people from the
Internet who had been honest about themselves and their
lives, and they had no mali— cious intent
whatsoever.

   

The moral of the story is be open-
minded but careful.
Most people out there are
just like you, but some are not.

   
  

out any of your
p e r s o n a I infonnation in chat rooms,
don’t believe ev- erything people tell you online,
always meet in public places and think cautiously.

The Internet is a huge world‘ of learning and opportu-
nity, and it is the medium of the future.

Be courageous but careful, and good things could hap-
pen to you, too. Happy chatting!

Don’t give

 

FEBRUARY 8, 1999

  Siiﬁhrs

PAGE 5;

Overtime not
a great time
for Generals

By Brendan Harrington

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s basketball team dropped
a heartbreaker to Eastern Mennonite on an exciting Satur-
day night at the Warner Center, 82-76 in overtime.

Sophomore guard Joel Kauffrnan scored a game-high
27 points for EMU and shot 17-18 from the free-throw line,
including four technical free-throws in the ﬁnal six sec-
onds of the game to seal the victory.

“We played very hard, and that’s the most frustrating,”
W&L head coach Kevin Moore said. “You win a game like
this one and it does so much for your conﬁdence . . . but if
you lose it’s like sticking a knife right in your heart.”

The Generals trailed 79-78 with :27 left in overtime when
freshman forward Bob Bustamante missed a three-pointer
from the top of the key. Walt Plyer came down with the
offensive rebound for the Generals and W&L called a time-
out with 18 seconds left.

Following the time-out, junior center Rich Peterson
caught the ball on the right block, went up strong against

a double team but missed the shot. Although there ap-
peared to be contact, no foul was called and EMU forward

Neal Lewis came down with the rebound, Bustamante
fouled Lewis to stop the clock with six seconds remaining.
Immediately following Bustamante’s foul, senior guard
Kevin Cobbin appeared to push Kauffrnan, and Cobbin
was whistled for two technical fouls.

Bustamante’s foul and Cobbin’s double technical com-
bined to give the Royals six free-throws and possession.
Lewis hit one of two from the line and Kauffman hit all four
technicals to seal the victory.

“We kept falling behind, but we battled back and
played tough,” junior forward Scott Hudson said. “We
made some big shots and almost came up with some big
defensive stops.”

The Generals trailed 67-61 with :40 left in regulation but
W&L pulled off a thrilling comeback to send the game into
overtime. Sophomore guard Will Ballard banked in a tliree-
pointer with six seconds remaining in regulation to send
the game into overtime tied at 68-68.

The Generals pulled off the comeback without the ser-

. vices of Hudson and junior center Brian Ricketts, who both

fouled out in the final .2230 of regulation. The Generals lost
Ballard just four seconds into the overtime period when he
was called for his ﬁfth foul.

The Royals went to the foul line 42 times compared to just
21 for the Generals. EMU shot 31-42 (74 percent) while the
Generals shot 14-21 (67 percent). The Generals were whistled
for 29 personal fouls compared to just 18 for the Royals.

“They scored 31 of their 82 points were from the foul
line,” Moore said. “That is very frustrating.”

Five players ﬁnished in double figures for the Generals, led
by sophomore guard Chad Braley with 17 points. Ballard had
16, Hudson and Peterson scored 14, and Cobbin tallied 1 1 .

Along with Kauffman’s 27 points for EMU, junior for-
ward Quincy Longacre had 17 points and nine rebounds

Junior forwand Scott Hudson protects the ball during Sat

and Lewis had 14 points.

The Royals shot 56 percent from the ﬁeld, while the Generals
shot only 39 percent. W&L turned the ball over only 14 times
and outrebounded the Royals 20-1 1 on the offensive glass.

“We took care of the ball well and we rebounded well,” Moore
said. “But the thing we didn't do a good job of is preventing
their big guys from catching the ball in scoring position.”

The Generals remain one game ahead of Lynchburg for
the 8th and ﬁnal spot in the upcoming ODAC tournament.
The Generals host Lynchburg on Wednesday night after
visiting Randolph-Macon on Monday night.

Swimming crushed in Atlanta

By Steele Cooper

SPORTS WRITER

The men’s and women’s swim teams traveled Saturday
to Atlanta to face traditional favorite Emory. Both the men
and the women lost their match-ups, but the meet was not
without its bright spots for the Generals.

The men (7-6) lost by a 160-75 margin, but their usual
leaders did not come away empty handed. Sophomore
Colin Hayes gamered-two wins in the 100 and 200 ﬂy,
with times of 53.30 and 2:00.24, respectively. Hayes’
classmate Rob Little ﬁnished the 200 [M with the win-
ning time of2:06.50, andjunior Jared Fribush won the
50 free with a time of22.16. The men’s 400 free relay
team also brought home a win for the Generals.

“We knew the competition here was going to be

Track fares
well at VMI

tough, but I think everyone did well. It’s time now to
focus on swimming well at the Invitational, which I
know we’re very capable of doing,” said Fribush.

The women (9-7), riding a high from earning the most
wins on a season in school history, fell to Emory with a
167-80 score. Senior captain Margaret Hoehl once
again turned in an insurmountable performance,
thereby continuing her incredible season. Hoehl won
the 200 free (1 :58.97) and the 500 free (5: 16.38). The
women’s 400 free relay team also defeated Emory in
that event.

The men and women of Washington and Lee swim-
ming will begin to close out their season next week.
The men will swim in the SCAC Invitational February
18-20, and the women will vie for the title in the ODAC/
SCAC Championships February 19-21.

Chamberlain
wrestles well

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
urday’s game.

Guilford Quakers
foil women’s b-ball _

By Tod Williams

SPORTS WRITER

It was a week of role reversals for
the Generals: some good, and some
bad. The outcomes of the Randolph-
Macon Women’s College game and the
Guilford College game were the oppo-
site from the teams’ first meeting ear-
lier this season. And for once, Wash-
ington and Lee was the one riding high
on a winning streak.

Just over two weeks ago, Berry
Lowden’s last-second layup gave the
Generals a 63-61 win over Guilford. But
vengeance was in the Quakers’ cor-
ner when they entered the Warner
Center on Saturday, and they walked
away with an 83-70 win.

But last Tuesday, it was the Gener-
als who avenged an 86-79 loss to
RMWC last December. Junior Ansley
Miller drove north to south in the
game’s ﬁnalseconds to put W&L up
55-54 up for good. That was the ﬁfth
win in the streak, and the first time that
they have played more than two win-
ning games in a row. Unfortunately, it
came to an end with Saturday’s loss.

Saturday’s loss was far from appar-
ent until well into the second half.
W&L jumped out to an early eight-
point lead in the game, and they car-
ried the same eight-point lead into the
break. After halftime, the Generals ex-
tended ﬂieir lead to 12, but they weren’t
far enough ahead of the Quakers, who
took the game from there.

Shooting percentages tell the story
of W&L’s second half demise. The
Generals shot 44 percent in the first
half, but let their accuracy slip to 35
percent in the second half. The sec-
ond half did see Miller connect the
trifector, the only make in ten General
attempts. But Guilford prospered in the
last 20 minutes. Having shot only 35
percent in the first half, the Quakers
saw the need to step it up, and they

certainly did. Guilford’s 55 percent
second half would be all they needed
for the 13 point win.

Again, freshman Jessica Mentz
paced the Generals with her 20 points.
W&L’s lone senior, Chrissy Burghardt
helped outwith her 17 point and 1 1 board
double double. Megan Babst proved to
be the soup Nazi for the day, as she de-
nied service to the Quakers four times;
Babst also notched 10 rebounds.

Guilford’s bench seemed a little
deeper than the Generals’ did on Sat-
urday. Three Quakers came off the pine
to combine for 42 points, while W&L’s
bench could only muster 16 points. .

Prior to the last-second heroics of
Miller in Tuesday’s win over RMWC,
Burghardt became the ﬁrst General in
the school’s 250 years to score 1,000
career points. The thrilling win came
after a very tight game. W&L led the
entire game, until the last six seconds,
but never by more than seven points.

RMWC took the lead for the ﬁrst
time as Stephanie Marcial nailed a ten-

footer to put the Quakers up with 5.7
ticks left. W&L called a time out, but,

after returning to the court, and hint.-93- ,

ing what would come, another time ou
was called. This time the General
came out in a different setup, whic

was obviously successful. Once Miller  ‘l ~“.
got the ball, it was all over for the Wild- . ;

cats. After weaving through a host of. S 
bodies, Miller hit her layup, with only~f' :‘

1.1 seconds left. But RMWC,
inbounded and took one last heave at“;
the basket.

Yet again, Mentz lead the Generals
this time with her fourth double doubl
of the season. Burghardt, the millennium;

woman, added 12 points and ﬁve steal'_s:E 
for the Generals. Tara Carleton ofRMW(§ :3 '

s.
.44

led all scorers with her 25 points. 

The Generals look to avenge a 70-
53 loss to Bridgewater earlier this year
as W&L hosts the Eagles at the
Warner Center Tuesday night.

711te1'nat1'anaI ‘Blah

‘75'eb1-nary 25, 1999 ' 77mrsday ' 8 p.m.

presents

€99-IQ_,5istro zooo

Extraordinlst Craig Karges presents a fantastic
Sophomore Josh Chamberlain

reached the ﬁnals of the149-pound
weight class bracket at the Newport
News Apprentice School Invitational .' ' ‘ ‘

Tournament, finishing in second place. V . ' 

Chamberlain defeated North Caro- .  :m..
lina-Pembroke‘s Trey Brown, 14-2, be- -339 LE"°t
fore falling to Longwood’s Jeff Kepler
13-9 in the championship match.

Ezra Morse, a 174-pounder won his
first round match against Newport
News Apprentice's Ian Frost by pin-
ning him 2:50 into the match. Morse
was defeated by North Carolina-
Pembroke's Bill Atmore, 11-0 in the
semiﬁnals. Alex McManimen reached
the semifinals of the 184-pound
bracket by beating Chris McNa1ly of
Western Maryland, 10-7. He then was
pinned the next round by Anderson's
Ryan Hardy in 5:33.

The Generals travel to Gettysburg,
Pa. to take part in the Gettysburg
Quadrangular next Saturday.

' _ . display of Illusion, the paranormal and extraor-
“The nextera In mystery

entertainment!"
4 Performance Nlagazine

The Washington and Lee men's and women's
track teams represented themselves well against Di-
vision I competition at the VMI Winter Relays on
Saturday afternoon.

The women were led by senior Lisa Brennan, who
ﬁnished in 10th place in the 800-meter with a time of
2:33.60. Sophomore Kathleen Moroney closely fol-
lowed Brennan in that event, ﬁnishing in 13th place
with a time of 2:36.40. Sophomore Amy Calce finished
12th in the women's longjump with a mark of 15'6".
She also placed 16th in the 55 meter dash with a time
of 8.04 seconds.

The men were led by senior Marc Granger, who ﬁn-
ished sixth place in the shot put with a distance of 41'10".
Junior Hansel] Pasco, ﬁnished in 20th place in the men's
55-meter dash with a time of 6.83. Senior Darrick Alford
continued to impress, finishing in 1 1th place in the 3,000
meter run, with a time of9:20. 10 and 16th place in the
mile run with atime of4:49.30.

The Generals will be in action again on Feb. 27, when
they host the ODAC Championships at VMI's Cormack
Field House.

dinarg phenomena using total audience particl-

pationi it’s like The Twilight Zone, live on stage!

As seen on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno,
Larry King Live, CNN Headline News, Lifetime
Television, CNBC, The Nashville Network, United
Paramount Netuiork and El Entertainment

Television.

K A R G E 5
Feb. 24, 8 p.m.
Lenfest Center

“This uieirds
me out!" p
—-Dennis Nliller

Free Admission

— Courtesy of Sports Information

 

Humor Page

FEBRUARY 8, 1999 y

PAGE 6

LAST WORD
Say “I love you” with a Last Word card 

, .

By Kevin McManemin

APPA RENTLY SOME SORT OF DUCK _ ~

I Ami afew Ami we 

i.::...°.::‘:::.::::.i.:::;=.‘;‘::::.";: My L0” M-w ’§?wl’eMW ‘WW ‘
chocolates, ﬂowers and little frilly lace ‘ U     1473  "V073

thingies in its wake.

Valentine’s Day. The name alone is
enough to send shivers up a man’s
bank account. A holiday dedicated to
the materialistic display of romance.

Nothing is more over-romanticized
in our society than romance. No sub-

% 711° if  never rememéer, E£Cﬂ/V153  0141’
ject has been more thoroughly ex- 7

hausted in song, stage and verse. Of a mygl you won [ //(H.761 5014“
course, no one work has ever suc- —-«-- — i )‘

ceeded in encapsulating all that love
is. Sometimes love is as light and
cheery as a catchy pop song. Some
times it’s as sultry and passionate as
an R&B number. And sometimes it’s
the blues.

In my personal opinion, love is a
war, but not a good war like WWII or

t/wmfz/:14.
Now Z014 have some
hits 0 ya

Valtrex!

 

Sorely missing you,

 

your Valtrex Valentine

I met you at that NAECAR

. 6’
VIOlel'S are blue 4%‘ ‘/“”””-’ ‘%  _
 '  You looked dang good, even

with them braces
Tﬁcmés To my

Babe, you send ma hormones

   

   

 

 

C

the Revolution. No, love is a brutal   buzzms ‘
conflict full of betrayal, lies and ha- . ,_ . _ ._ , ,

tred. Falling in love is like being V|bY‘d'l'()V‘ it   . A ~ _ ' . ~ ' if ”’ “lo” t Platter that 5'0“ ‘"5

chained upside down in a vat ofboil- "’ V * , * ma 50U5'”

ing acid and having dental equipment Mama don’t mind, in fact she

raked across your body while being Q loate wt
forced to listen to John Tesh albums I     CUZ I amit weeping no more

as diseased rats gnaw at your ﬁngers _

and toes. Q ’ with them their goate

But no,I’m notbitter. ' ‘ ‘ % '. ‘”""' ‘
Yes sir, love in the nineties is a 9*

nasty business. Gone are the days of ’

boy meets girl, boy marries girl, boy %    e   04.04%. mm amaum

and girl live happily ever after. Now n I '  ‘ © T. A

it’s boy meets girl, boy and girl get Va  N6’ (V j U my em‘; 7]
blood tests and compare viruses, boy 0’; m ¥ L997; écwcdea/wdzceﬂnce :2; Zia//imoqé
knocks girl up, boy and girl get pren— ﬂ  Sessed  [0

uptial agreement, girl leaves boy for ’é6¢ me away ’
her ex-boyfriend the heroinjunky, boy 5 9 la aw a J _’ LWQWWWI 45/9 4%,; Wwgégm

turns gay, boy and girl avoid eye con- )1
tact for the rest oftheir lives. 0” my MM/ed

I think Valentine’s Day should i  J  We MM0/ywy 440W 4%),

catch up with the times. Cut out these , ,

Last Word Valentines Day cards and Céwadw [”"”’9$"’&’ ‘
let your sweetheart know how you #3

really feel (just don’t blame me ifyou y a @  l , ,

ﬁnd yourself sleeping on the couch). Q0” 56/0“ 3/0'” éé”“’‘/‘ 0” “W éw

‘U

HAVE YOU CONSIDERED   .

. .,,_,‘l..’...Q.I1~'a‘-‘J5-'....'..";gp.'4".‘ .

 

PARTIES
BANQUETS
IMULY
I SPECIALS

°| CALL AHEAD
CARRY OUT

SUMMER SCHOOL FOR PEOPLE .
ON THEIR WAY TO THE TOP.

Apply now! You'll develop ‘l
the leadership skills and

If you didn't sign up for
ROTC as a freshman or

sophomore, you can catch
up this summer by attend-

self-confidence you need
to succeed in college and

 

‘ i§‘i?ii””“" rim 1°‘”’°i.‘F “dairies *
° ° , a enge, a paid 1ve- Ora Vance O certra1n-
Brlng Thls Ad. >Meal Plan week summer course in ing when you return to
- . leade hi . tf 11.
Soup/Salad/Drink >Food Deblt ‘S 1’ °‘°‘’“P“S “ex 5‘ ._
$3.75 >Cash or Check ARMY mm
' THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE ‘
_ i . _ , Hundreds of scholarships available.
Mon. Thurs. 1 1.00 a.m. 7.30 p.m. For demﬂson howtmmpete for
Friday: 1 1:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m. ones ¢a'lVM1ArmY ROTC at i.

(540) 464-7187

463-8578

 

