U

    

. \

I
4
‘gr

4

 
 

E Clip: iliing-tum ﬂirt  

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITv’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

VOLUME 101, NO. 16

By Ginger Phillips

F EA TURES EDITOR

The most popular book around
campus latelypseems to be the White
Book. The 16 pages of this book ex-
plain the philosophy and procedures
behind the Honor System for which
Washington and Lee University is
famed. After the recent withdrawal of
a W&L sophomore convicted of steal-
ing from the Dining Hall by the Execu-
tive Committee, many students are
demanding changes to the White Book
and thus, to the Honor System itself.

In an attempt to address student
concerns and to discuss possible
amendments to the system, sophomore
EC representatives Jeff Cook and Faith
Collins hosted an open forum in the
University Center on Feb. 25. Approxi-
mately 25 sophomores attended the

8 meeting and most expressed their

A

W

 

 

‘x,

At

 

sense of fear and confusion about the
Honor System.

“I don’t know if someone I don’t
even know is going to turn me in for
something I didn’t even know was an
honor violation,” Heather McDonald
said. “Everyone is on pins and needles
over this issue. The student body
needs to realize that the Honor Sys-
tem is not a toy.” ‘

Cook voiced a similar sentiment.
“People have lost faith in the fact that
the EC represents them and the Honor
System.”

The White Book states that igno-
rance of the system is no excuse, but
many students are still confused about
the logistics of the system and insist
that the deﬁnition of an honor viola-
tion be stated more clearly.

“Infractions like the D-hall incident
just seem so ridiculous,” Will Vail said.
“There should be some safeguards
against something like this. Someone
should use common sense to realize
that this is not a big deal.”

“There should be no reason to fear
the honor system,” Cook said. “It is
there to protect the student body but
it’s hard to make a laundry list of vio-
lations. That’s why it’s not codified.”

W&L maintains an honor system,
which is different from an honor code.
The Honor System was founded on
the belief that honorable conduct can-
not be codiﬁed, but that dishonorable
conduct should be deﬁned by the cur-
rent student generation.

This generation of students is call-
ing for a wide range of changes to the
structure and processes of the EC, the
exclusively student-administered
body responsible for judging all claims

Speeding limited

By Eliarma Marziani
STAFF WRITER

Speed has become a more costly
thrill for many Virginians since Gov. Jim
Gilmore announced a new emphasis on
traffic law enforcement on Interstate 81
at a press conference on Feb. 10.

Since then, the Virginia State Police
force has signiﬁcantly boosted patrols
for speed limit enforcement.

I-81, which stretches 325 miles be-
tween Winchester and Bristol, has long
been considered a safety hazard by
many drivers. First Sergeant Joe Peters
of the Virginia Police Department ex-
plained this perception. “When I-81 first
opened in the mid-1960s, the highway
wasn’t designed to carry the number of
vehicles it does today, especially in
trucks,” he said.

“I don’t think 1-81 is any more dan-
gerous than any other highway in it-
self,” Peters said, adding that the moun-
tainous, hilly terrain that I-81 covers
makes driving more difficult, especially
for trucks. 4

The dangers of excessive speed on
I-81 during less-than-ideal weather hit
close to home this year for Washing-
ton and Lee University. On Jan. 3,
freshman Jon Nabors died in a 16-ye-
hicle pileup on the interstate just out-
side of Lexington.

Unfortunately, this crash was not the
first of its kind'to have happened on I-
81. During the 1998 Fourth of July week-
end, seven people died in a crash be-
tween Salem and Christiansburg.

‘Sophomores

of dishonorable conduct.

“The most glaring problem with the
EC is that there is no accountability,"
said Cook. “The EC members are the
grand jury, investigators, jury, judge
and prosecution. Everyone on the EC
tries his hardest to make the right de-
cisions, but sometimes it’ s difﬁcult to
play so many roles.”

Some students suggested that the
voting records of individual EC mem-
bers be posted so that student voters
would be able to make more informed
decisions when electing their repre-
sentatives. Others claim that this ac-
tion would result in representatives
voting for the sake of politics and
popularity instead of to uphold the
foundations of the Honor System.

The conﬁdential nature of EC hear-
ings is also a source of heated debate;
Anyone involved in an EC investiga-
tion or trial could face serious disci-
plinary action for breaking this conﬁ-
dentiality.

“It is our honor system, not the EC’s
honor system,” Ted Adams said. “We
can’t know if the representatives voted
correctly without all of the facts of the
trial becoming public.”

“There should be a lot less conﬁ-
dentiality concerning the hearings,”
Collins said. “Robert E. Lee did not
envision the system this way.”

The sophomore EC members con-
ceded that the EC is not infallible and
that the option for an open trial is a
safeguard against any mistakes that
the committee may make. Rarely does
an investigation progress to the point
of an open trial, however, because
many defendants fear the process and
exposure of such a trial.

“A student should nevervfear go-
ing to an open trial,”‘Sarah Riggs said.
“If they do fear it, you lose the only
accountability measure that exists
against the EC.”

While many of the students present
at the forum were divided on the is-
sues of conﬁdentiality and account-
ability, almost all agreed that the sys-
tem should be divided to create a sepa-

rate EC for the University and the Law

School. Some sophomores suggested
that the law representatives may be
out of touch with undergraduate life
and were concerned that they might be
more interested in going for a legal vic-
tory than reaching the truth.

“Sometimes the law students are in
there just to exercise their own law
skills,” Collins said.

In addition to a divided system, stu-
dents discussed many other changes
to the Honor System. Currently a ma-

When asked about the causes of
the new, stricter enforcement of speed
laws, Peters said, “We want to address
the increase of trafﬁc on I-81, and of
course, the high proﬁle crashes. The
police department has received com-
plaints from citizens about driving
conditions on I-81.”

Gilmore gave responded in his De-
cision Directive, which provides new
standards for trafﬁc law enforcement.
These methods include increasing the
number of on-duty patrol units, using
state police aircraft to assist local po-
lice patrolling efforts, and installing
new signs to announce the strict
speed limit enforcement.

“There’s more traffic on" our
interstates than ever, and too many
drivers are going too fast, danger-
ously so,” ‘ Gilmore said. “My direc-
tive authorizes atask force to promptly
begin these initiatives, including tem-
porary assignment of up to 50 extra
state troopers.”

“We have increased our patrols
and the number of troopers assigned
throughout the state,” Peters said.
“We ensure that more troopers will be
out there every day. And then we have
targeted certain days that we will prob-
ably triple our enforcement out there.”

Sunday, the last day of February
break, was a targeted day. Many W&L
students noticed an increased num-
ber of patrol cars on their drives back
to Lexington. “It seemed like about
every ﬁve minutes there was a cop on
the side of the road. All of them had

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

 

MONDAY, MARCH 1, 1999

question Honor System

Emily Bames/Photo Editor

Sophomore EC representatives Jeff Cook and Faith Collins lead an Honor System discussion among ‘sophomores on Thursday.

LPD busts UVA pranksters

jority vote Oftwo—thirds is required to
convict an accused person of an honor
violation. Many would like to see this
rule changed to a unanimous vote.
Cook also proposed speciﬁc amend-
ments to the White Book such as al-
lowing the University Registrar to se-

lect at random the member of t_he,, stu-

dent body who is permitted to partici-
pate in a hearing. Presently this person
is selected by a member of the EC. He
also suggested changing the EC
president’s role to that of an objective
observer.

“The president is in a very difﬁcult
position because he must ensure a fair
trial, but he also has a vested interest in
the actual deliberations of that trial,”
said Cook.

The next White Book Review Com-
mittee will be appointed during the
1999-2000 academic year. The EC,
however, will consider at any time an
amendment proposal by a student if
it is accompanied by a petition of at
least 50 current students.

“The problem with amending the

See HONOR, Page 2

on 1-81

77

pulled over someone,
Catherine Mead said.

Virginia police in fact dealt with
more than 1700 violations on I-81 that
Sunday alone. Large white X’s could
be seen periodically along the shoul-
der of the road. Police helicopters use
these X’s to monitor car speeds by
measuring how long it takes drivers
to get from one marking to another.
The air patrol contacts ofﬁcers on the
ground if they ﬁnd a vehicle that is
consistently speeding.

Commuting from Roanoke to Lex-
ington every day, senior Seth
Kellermann has experience with this
stretch of road and has noticed trafﬁc
patterns all year. The extra police pres-
ence since Gilmore’s directive caught
his attention.

“I ’ve noticed that on the stretch be-
tween Lexington and Roanoke, I see
between ﬁve and seven cops every day,
and they’re being a lot sneakier than
they used to be,” he said. Kellerman is
thankful for the new emphasis on en-
forcement. “I think it’s very good be-
cause previously semis would travel at
incredible rates of speed like 85 m.p.h..”

Peters identiﬁes reducing crashes,
injuries and fatalities on I-81 as the
State Police’s main goal. “The extra
enforcement also lets the public know
that the highway is safe to travel on,”
he said. “They can expect to get from
point A to point B in a safe manner.”

If people do not keep themselves
safe, “we will aggressively and suc-
cessfully enforce the law,” Peters said.

sophomore

By Tarah Grant

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

A Valentine’s Day prank by the

-University. of Virginia chapten of -Phi"

Kappa Psi does not have the Lexing-
ton Police Department laughing.

Last Friday, the department ar-
rested ﬁve UVA students for breaking
and entering into the Washington and
Lee University Phi Kappa Psi chapter
house on Feb. 14.

“I would call it more of a prank than
a crime,” W&L Phi Kappa Psi sopho-
more Nick Silverman said. “I don’t
consider it that big ofa deal.”

The police, however, are taking the

incident very seriously.

While W&L students were on va-
cation, ﬁve UVA Phi Kappa Psi pledges
entered the fraternity house through

an unlocked c199r...e_1c.c.orsiing. t0_t_he

police. A neighbor alerted law enforce-
ment when he spotted people taking
items from the house and loading them
into an unfamiliar van.

“They caught them as they were

“driving away, so we got everything

back,” Silvennan said.

W&L security ofﬁcers stopped the
van at the Estill Street entrance to
Davidson Park. The students identi-

’ ﬁed themselves as University of West

Virginia students to security. A sub-

D-hall dishes out

By Erica Prosser
F 5.4 TURES EDITOR

Students wandering into Evans
Dining Hall over the past week have
met with an unfamiliar sight: new
chairs and tables.

“It’s more scenic than the old D-
hall furniture,” sophomore Tim Koss
said, “but it looks cheaper.”

Why the change from the old fur-
niture? Jerry Darrell, director of Din-
ing Services, said that this year is the
40th anniversary of the dining hall.
The old furniture was actually the
original furniture from 40 years ago.

“It was looking worn and tired ﬁve
or six years ago," he said. “It was rick-
ety and not sturdy. It was dangerous;
we actually had an accident a few
years ago when a chair broke.”

For about ﬁve years, Darrell has
made a capital request of the general
budget to replace the old tables and
chairs, and his request was granted
this year. Washington and Lee Uni-
versity allotted the dining service
funds for the new furniture, which
cost$1o’o,0o0.

Darrell said that the process of
choosing the new ﬁxtures was a long
and careful one. The dining staff sur-
veyed the students about chair pref-
erences, narrowing the choices down
to 12, then three, then ﬁnally one, the
padded "chairs now gracing the hall.
The chairs are backed by a 10-year
warranty, and although the fabric is
not indestructible, it holds up well
under the stress of spills.

“We tested the fabric with grease, cof-
fee  It all wiped right off” Darrell said.

The one problem that students
have been having with the chairs, he
said, is the fact that the plastic slides
on the bottoms of the chairs prevent
them from sliding well across the ﬂoor.
He said that the staff is working on

replacing the plastic slides with metal
ones to eliminate this problem.

The tables are a mix of long rect-
angles and smaller round tables. They
are collapsible, which makes them

easier to move around for catered

events in the hall. When the choice
of tables came up, though, Darrell said
that the student preferences were a
little different.

sequent search of the van, however,
revealed that they were UVA students
on a well—planned mission.

Eleven letters, written on UVA
Phi Kappa Psi chapter stationary,
were found in the van that contained
detailed instructions for the stu-
dents to commit pranks throughout
the southeast United States. The
letters directed the students to iden-
tify themselves as WVU students if
questioned by authorities.

In the van, security also found the
items that the pledges were directed
to take from the W&L chapter house,

See PRANKSTERS, Page 2

$100, 000

“Students were telling us that they
didn’t want the long, VMI-type
tables,” he said. “They said that they
visited friends at other colleges and
liked the smaller, round tables . . . But
now, some students are saying that
they like the long tables because they
all sit in groups together.”

See D-HALL, Page 2

OPINION:
W&LIEE:
SPORTS:

LAST WORD:

t‘? I - \-'

flip: ﬁling-tum ilﬁlti
Debating the Honor System
Campus rape: an in-depth look at the system

Men’s lax Openswith force; baseball sweeps

Traveling to England; Payback movie review

    
     

Jamaican students dance to the tune of a Jamaican
folksong at “An Evening Abroad” last Thursday.

March 1, 1999

PAGE 3
PAGE 4&5
PAGE 6&7

PAGE 8

iii ' OlOl[d/S9U.lBg,A'[_llll':]

‘ (

 

 -53' -
PAGE ‘ 

MARCH J, 1999 7*

HONOR SYSTEM———

continued from page 1

White Book is that the decision on whether or not a change _

is made ultimately comes down to the EC,” Ryan Truax said.

The current controversy surrounding the Honor Sys-
tem has no easy answer. The academic and social freedom
accorded to W&L students also exists in their form of gov-
ernment. If changes in that system are to be made, they will
come directly from the student body.

“Any changes that we make are going to last for a very
long time,” said Cook. “Therefore we must continue to
seriously discuss these issues and have everyone involved
before we make any important changes.”

D-HALL  
continued from page 1

Despite the slight confusion about table preference, the
new furniture has had a positive impact overall. Seating has
increased in the dining hall, and Darrell said that students
generally seem to ﬁnd the new furniture attractive.

‘‘It’s pretty nice,” freshman Kristen Bonnema said.
“There's something awkward about the height of the arm-
rests and tables, and it’s not as comfortable. But the fabric
goes with the columns.”

The dining hall beautiﬁcation will not stop with the fumi-
ture, either. Darrell said that plans are in the works to paint
the pillars over the summer. The old green color will be re-
placed with a light blue shade that will still complement the
upholstery of the new chairs. The painting process has al-
ready begun, as workers painted the hall ceiling during Feb-
ruary break: By the time students return next fall, they will
meet with a prettier, more comfortable dining hall.

What about the old, familiar chairs and tables we had
come to know so well? Until March 9, the old stuff will be
available for free to non-proﬁt and educational organiza-
tions; from noon to 4 p.m. On March 9, the fumiture will
go on sale to the general public. The sale will be held at
the Physical Plant barn on the back campus, and all fumi-
ture will be sold on a cash-and-carry basis. Tables will
cost $5, $7 or $10, and chairs will cost $3 each.

Students may enjoy the newer furniture now, but Darrell
said that the process of moving out the old tables and
chairs was not without heartbreak.

“It was an emotional day when the old fumiture was re-
moved,” he said. “There were two students there, the last
two to use the old fumiture. We took a picture of them at their
table, and we let them keep the chairs.”

PRANKS TERS —+-——
continued from page 1'

including a framed photograph of the W&L campus from
1919, a candle, a W&L tee-shirt, and a composite board
containing individual photographs of the 1998 W&L Phi
Kappa Psi members. The value of the items taken from the
house was estimated to be $1,310, according to the police.

After the true identities of the ﬁve men were ascertained,
based on UVA identiﬁcation cards and driver’s licenses,
they were pennitted to return to Charlottesville on the night
of the incident. Felony warrants were obtained later in the
week, charging‘ all ﬁve students with grand larceny and
petty larceny, in addition to breaking and entering.

The UVA students voluntarily returned to Lexington last
Friday to be formally charged. They were released from cus-
tody on $500 bonds to await their preliminary hearings, which
will be held later in Rockbridge General District Court.

The UVA student néwspaper, The Cavalier Daily, re-
ported that the students will not be charged with honor
violations because the UVA honor constitution limits the

geographical area in which students are bound to the honor,
system. Students are only held to the system within "

Charlottesville and Albemarle County or “when he identi-
ﬁes himself as a University of Virginia student in order to
gain the reliance and trust of others.”

“I was highly disappointed in your committee,” Mike
Young, director of W&L security, told The Cavalier Daily.
“Ours [at W&L] applies everywhere. We don’t always
ﬁnd out about things students do [off campus], but if we
do we certainly address them.”

The Cavalier Daily also reported that, as a result of the
arrest, representatives from Phi Kappa Psi national head-
quarters are investigating the UVA chapter.

  @112 iﬁing-tum ﬂirts . .

 

UNDERGRADUATE STUDY ABROAD

o:o

GREAT BRITAIN
AUSTRALIA
IRELAND
NEW ZEALAND

‘o

ARGENTINA
CI-IILE
COSTA RICA

Fall, Spring 01 Full Year. Scholarships Available.

Study Abroad Information Session:
Repmsenmive; Steve Seaworth

Thursday , March /4

11:30 am — 1:00 pm
Information Table

Outside Co-op

(If rain at the dining hall)

For further information contact the lnstitute for Study Abroad. Butler University,
4600 Sunset Avenue. lndranapolrs, IN 46208. Tel: 800/858-0229 Fax: 317/940-9704

INSTITUTE FOR STUDY ABROAD
BUTLER UNIVERSITY

Date:

Location:

71.12 13211 lllllaaque .

A Renaissance of the Zlltriat Zlianrg Erma

Tickets aml memorabilia on sale llarch 1-5
llemoraloilia Package: $88 Two Tickets: $55

llondai'-Thursday;lllacm.-5p.m. ‘:0
Tuesday a1nrlll'ednesrloy, liom.-9 pm.
Tt1'lla1y,lll:LnI.-2p.ni.
lini\'ersit.3Teoter

seoooao EAl(

‘FROM $159 PER WEEI(*

SAlLBOAT$: . Kl i3_.£Ac j BAR,» JET SKIS : PARASATLS
“HOME OF THE WORLD'S I.oNc.EsT KEG PARTY"
FREE DRAFT BEERALI. WEEK LONG-(ALI. FOR INFO!
- 1-800-488-8828

www.sandpipcrbeacon.com (*r:rtes per person)
P/\N/\/v\/\ crrv BE/\(.|-l.

17402 FRONT BE/v\(l--I ROAD - H 3.?-=11?»

ms YEAR A LOT or coLLEaE
SENIORS WILL BE GRADUATING
mro DEBT.

Under the Army’s
Loan Repayment
program, you could get
out from under with a
threeyear enlistment.

Each year you serve
on active duty reduces
your indebtedness by one-
third or $1,500, which-
ever amount is greater,

 

up to a $65,000 limit.

The offer applies to Perkins Loans, Stafford Loans,
and certain other federally insured loans, which are not
in default.

And debt relief is just one of the many beneﬁts
you’ll earn from the Army. Ask your Army Recruiter.

703-886-2651

ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE?

www.goarmy.com

 

PREREOUISl'I'E: ADRENALINE '

Drive. Intensity. Those aren't
words you're likely to see in many
course requirements. Then again
Army ROTC is unlike any other
elective. It's hands—on excite-
ment. ROTC will challenge you
mentally and physically
through intense leadership
training. Training that builds

your character, confidence and
decision-making skills. Again, ')
words other courses seldom use.
But they're the credits you need to
succeed in life. ‘ROTC is open to
freshmen and sophomores with-
out obligation and requires
about five hours per week. Reg— ‘
ister this term for Army ROTC.

 

ARMY ROTC, .   8‘

THE SMIIRTEST COIJJEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE

For; details, call VNII Army ROTC
at (540) 464-7351.

seomo BREAK

 

llovlonc, Poncmu Elly. Padre, Mioml, cuncun,
lumciou, Bahamas, etc.
Best hotels, nrioes, names. Browse
www.icnl.com. Hens com cosh, tree mos. coll
Inlet-ccmous I-800-327-6013

 

Academic couple seeks:

EGGDONOR.

for clinic in VA/NC region: Cau-
casian woman, 21-30, nonsmoker,
college degree or higher, solid
SAT scores, at least 5’8”, lean/
athletic build, dark complexionl
hair, even—featured face, excellent
health/teeth/skin/eyesight. Right
candidate will be well-compen-
sated and asked to provide pho-
tos. Please send letter along with
background, education, and mo-
tivation for doing this to: POB
425545, Cambridge, MA 02142.
All serious replies answered.

J/~.ME'S G LE\.’LiUr'“1N LlE3RAY__

   

540-463-7371

- Parents’ niscounr

' New” IIGIIUIHIEII

' "33  WIIII IIBIIIIIIB
‘ "0 SIIIIIIIIIIQ IIIIIIIIIS

° H88 clllllillelllﬂl Brealtlast

Econo
Lodge

Summer Employrnent
Opportwoities?

Special Programs
Resident Assistants
June 15-Aug. 3, 1999

The Ofﬁce of Special Pro-
grams employs 5 W&L stu-
dents to serve as Resident
Assistants for a wide variety
of Special Programs includ-
ing Alumni Colleges,
Elderhostel, and adult con-
ferences. Duties include
housekeeping, attending all
meals with guests, bar recep-
tions, and shuttle driving. An
outgoing personality is a
must. Application deadline
is March 31, 1999.

, For more information,
please contact the Ofﬁce of
Special Programs, Howard
House, 463-8723.

J?’ -
Q’

INGTON. VA 24450 1

iolAR 0 2 1999

 

  

ﬂ

 

‘ MARCH 1, 1999

1

O

@112 filing-tum ilﬂhi

PIN ION

 

PAGE 3

Only change will

preserve W&L ’s

Honor System

I
K

K

\

If

it

x

K

4

By Sarah Riggs ’Ol

PHI CONTRIBUTOR

In the past few weeks, there has been a lot of discus-
sion concerning our Honor System and its administra-
tion here at W&L. I am writing both in defense of the
Honor System and in support of some much needed
changes in the way that it is administered.

The Honor System represents the tradition of integ-
rity on Washington and Lee’s campus. Properly kept, it
has the potential to enhance students’ lives long after
graduation.

Our unique capacity for self-governance sets us
apart from thousands of other schools across the na-
tion. However, it is our ability to adapt and improve the
Honor System that will ultimately define who we are
and determine what we may become. It is for these rea-
sons that I wish to propose the following changes.

Under the current White Book policy, the Execu-. 
tive Committee needs a two—thirds majority 
to ﬁnd a student guilty of an honor ‘
violation. Changing this policy to re-
quire a unanimous decision would 
vastly improve the quality and fair- W '
ness of the Honor System.

For a student to’ be essentially dismissed from
school, the evidence against the accused should be so
clear cut and obvious that all of the EC is convinced
that an honor violation has been committed.

For one thing, a unanimous decision would increase
the accountability of EC members. Secondly, this policy
would decrease the chances of an innocent person be-
ing found guilty. A unanimous decision would promote
fairness and increased accountability in the Honor Sys-
tern.

In addition to requiring an unanimous decision, the
EC needs to assume greater responsibility for educat-
ing students regarding White Book policy and what
may constitute an honor violation. This should not be
a one-time orientation during the freshman year.

If the Honor System»--is:-to -be kept by students
th“r'o1‘i'gl’1'o'ut‘their’W&L"cé'éef§,7’then‘the EC needs to
create a continual education system to inform students
of White Book policy. .

Students should not be held responsible for offenses
that they were never told were violations of the Honor
System. How many people actually knew that swiping
a freshman D-Hall card could get you kicked out?

How many people realize that according to White
Book policy, a student who suspects a classmate of
committing an HV is supposed to confront the accused
before reporting it to the EC? This practice, though it is
too little utilized, would save time, energy and heart-
ache for many students by clearing up misunderstand-
ings before they go before the EC. Educating students
concerning White Book policy would also decrease the
growing fear that is felt among students with regard to

   

@112 ilting-tum Elﬁhi/I

‘Tarah Grant
Hollister Hovey
Polly Doig

John Stewart
Ginger Phillips
Erica Prosser
Stephanie Bianco
Stephen Pesee
Frances Groberg
Kevin McManemin
Sarah Meldrum
Meredith Mlynar
Emily Barnes
Tom Wadlow

Executive Editors
News Editors
W&Life Editors
Opinions Editors
Sports Editor
Last Word Editor
Copy Editors

Photo Editor
Online Editor

Jason Williams
Matt Lorber
Lionel Brown

Business Manager
Advertising Director
Circulation Director

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editors, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the .
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reflect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wIu.edu
http://wIu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

I,

the Honor System.

Next, under the current
White Book policy, the EC
acts as investigator, grand
jury, prosecutor, judge and
jury. One major problem
with this is that because
the EC acts as the grand’
jury, deciding whether
or not there is enough
evidence to merit a closed
hearing, many of their de-
cisions may have al-
ready been in-
fluenced be-
fore the trial
even begins.

I agree V
w i t h
sopho-
m o r e
E C
rep-

  
  
   
  
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 

ethical, behavior for mature college students.

A student who is accused should know that he is
being investigated. Ifwe all live in an honorable envi-
ronment, what problems can this cause? Surely the ac-
cused will not ask other students to lie on his or her
behalf.

I encourage the EC to listen to‘its fellow students.
We all take great pride in our Honor System, but we
must not convince ourselves that we are incapable of
error.

There is a need for change. On the whole, the Honor
System works, but we must not neglect even the small-

est problems because we are dealing with the futures
of our classmates and ourselves.

EC strives for
balance
  between

  disclosure,
 conﬁdentiality

resentative

Jeff Cook. By Beth Formidoni ’96,
who has a99L

P r 0 p 0 S e d ECPRESIDENT

that seven

randomly 4

selected '
students, ‘V
b o u n d ‘E
by con- 
fiden- 
tial- _ g V
i t y .
and
given
no information
as to the names
of the students
involved could
d‘¢."tf€’-.‘Y 337311 ".9",
whether there 
is enough evi-
dence to go
to a closed
hearing. This
would create
a system in
which the
EC would
begin a trial
with no
precon-
cie i v ed
i d e a s
a b o u t —
the ac- :.
cused or i
the case, thus increasing the fairness to the accused.
On a ﬁnal note, no student should fear the Honor
System or the EC. The Honor System was intended to
create a comfortable and trustworthy environment.
Trials should concern only relevant questions and
material, and students should not be “investigated” by
their peers without their knowledge. This is unprofes-
sional and despicable, as well as dishonorable and un-

 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
   
    
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 

5 Many students have ex-
pressed interest in the dis-
closure of the voting

records and speciﬁc facts of

Executive Committee hearings.

The EC strives to maintain a balance be-
tween the conﬁdentiality created to protect the
accused and witnesses and disclosure of in-
formation for student awareness.

The Executive Committee does not dis-
close the facts of closed hearings for a num-
ber of reasons. First, disclosure of these facts
could compromise the anonymity of the ac-
cused and witnesses involved in a closed

‘hearing. ’ O A  ‘ I

Only the accused has the power to make
this information known to the public
through an appeal to an open hearing. Sec-
ond, no amount Qf disclosure could com-
pare to the Executive Committee’s ability to
hear and evaluate the witnesses’ testimony
and demeanor. A lesser degree of disclo-
sure would represent a halfhearted com-
promise between the conﬁdentiality of a
closed hearing and the student body’s abil-
ity to hear all of the facts and testimony
in an open hearing.

_ Releasing the closed hearing voting
, . ~ records of Executive Committee mem-

I ; bers represents an equally unsatisfac-
tory compromise between conﬁdenti-
ality and disclosure.

The release of voting records is a difﬁcult issue, be-
cause it is important for constituents to know the views of
their elected representatives. This need would not be met,
though, with a simple description of whether a member of
the Executive Committee voted guilty or not guilty.

Members’ votes are based on numerous factors, none
of which could be conveyed through a perfunctory list of

 

HONOR SYSTEM: Dead or Alive?

how that individual voted.

Furthermore, because Executive Committee members are
bound by an obligation of conﬁdentiality not to discuss
the facts of a particular case, representatives could neither
justify their decisions nor explain why they voted as they
did.

It is vitally important for students to be informed about
the opinions and values of their elected representatives. This
goal could be better accomplished through events that would
enable representatives to discuss their views on honor in a
setting divorced from the facts of a particular case.

Decaying system

must be reformed
Mike Agnello ‘O2

OPINION WRITER

In the weeks before break, an alleged honor viola-
tion occurred and resulted in a student withdrawing
from school. I won’t recount the story or even discuss
it; we are all too familiar with it. However, the episode
got me thinking. How extensive is the honor system
and exactly how does one deﬁne an honor violation?

Many students cried foul over the incident because
of the frivolous nature of the “ violation.” We all know
that any breach of the honor system, no matter how
small or seemingly insigniﬁcant, is considered equally
serious.

Is it possible for a student to unknowingly commit
an honor violation? If so, is he as accountable as a
student who did so knowingly? The White Book (which
everyone has read, of course), though rather thick, is
extremely vague on these subjects.

The ambiguity itselfis not even a bad thing; we live
in a value-based rather than a rule-based community.
Unfortunately, common sense and best judgement vary
greatly among two thousand separate, unique individu-
als. What is not covered under blatant lying, cheating
or stealing is more or less left to the Executive Commit-
tee.

I have no quarrel with the EC and recognize the dif-
ficulty of itsjob. Like any highjudicial body, its deci-
sions set precedents. These precedents can be good or
bad, but nevertheless, they exist. The EC must be care-
ful too be neither too hard nor too soft on the gray
areas. Acting too harshly would turn W&L into a po-
lice state and destroy the entire point of having an honor

system in the ﬁrst place. The reverse action would cause .

the Honor System to crumble.

Many students have called the EC’s handling ofthis
recent incident as well as others as “bull shit.” If the
body that enforces the Honor System is not respected,
what of the Honor System itself? I sympathize with both
sides, but this much I know: There are people on cam-
pus who think that the EC couldn’t pour piss out of a boot
if the instructions were on the heel. That’s bad folks.

Signs of the honor system’s decay are everywhere.
Freshmen attach signs the their detergent in the laun-
dry room, blatantly telling others not to steal theirs.
Some people who have left CDs in the library have had
them stolen. The J-School has to lock up its CDs
Whether or not everyone realizes it, we’re at a cross-
roads.

Modern societal realities have invaded our isolated
little bubble. The EC, with the help of the entire student
body, needs to re—emphasize the importance of the
Honor System and make clear what constitutes an honor
violation. The Honor System separates W&L from ev-
ery other school in the nation. In order to preserve our
elite status and national appeal, this problem must be
addressed. Somebody somewhere needs to do some-
thing before it’s too late. ‘

 

' =91} in tviio,university student budgets,’ ~
- ‘g  two gyrpupslof leaders to oversee nearly every‘ 
"student orgariiziationonv campus, observed the terms of ‘

 

i " three past Executive Committee presidents and ultimately,

g the system I am proud to call our own. i ’
A D I  numbers are suggestive of my capabilities, but
; ~ they are NOT, however, where the importance of my expe-
',rience lies. It is how these numbers have helped me, and
, continue to help me grow in my understanding and sup-
port of ourHon"or’System, that is vitally important to you,
' my fellow members of the student body.

system, butl possess the knowledge required to eﬂ‘ec-

- tively make changes in this system, a system designed to

~ I, portray and protect the principles and philosophies main-
; ,tained by the current generation of our student body.

. :  : I intend to encourage the momentum borne of these

   

commiéeéiiha 9 heal-aiz nivestigiative—reports,partici-7 "

-2   fmembersof the Executive Committee, both '
a’ present and.paSt,. simultaneously uphold and challenge I I

You see, not only am I aware of the intricacies of our .

    
 
  

     

.'~.\\s e 

.,‘weeicsto'.continue“

    
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
 

e. year ofthe White

. o‘irorSysten1. These com-

   

‘Remmders,forjFancy Dress Ball
Dear Me1{nbers‘of1he,W«&L:Community

 , As,you7’all1I'lcn‘ow, th‘e*92"" annual Fancy Dress Ballis
, Friday,‘March 5.’-I wouldlike to make you aware of a few

Tickets are ’  for admittance to the ball, so please
remember to purchase them and bring them with you. You
will not be admitted  aticket. Tickets and memorabilia
will be sold in the University Center all week beginning
Monday, March 1. These items will be sold from 10 am. to 5
p.m. Monday though Thursday, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Friday,
March 5, and 6 pm. to,9 pm. Tuesday and Wednesday.
Tickets will alsoobe sold at the front door of the ball for
anyone who has not already.pureha_sed them.

Please remember that smoking and drinking will not be
permitted, inside the Warner Center. The FD Steering Com-
mittee has worked very hard on this year’s ball, so please
respect our work and do not remove any decorations from
the Warner Center. In addition, please do not damage or

_ Olltlilie remainder ofthis.

folio . ‘I 'studentinitiativethatjis,1;;j , p
”  in wishes"‘fo:‘rja:safei
.  . , it E, . . he  ,_ forwardtoseeirlg
.. i}$:“%‘3.°.‘it»b<éi1yt<iiuiid¢I‘3i!kétl1e ‘  A  ‘ 
  system, and 

 35n.g°3f’3. <=I1011g31f°»I5f0P0L°-6 
for é,ch”ange’youhavérequested.‘
 etenergies of your con-g ~
“derstanding, weean col-i 

i7DearEditor:’g- 4' :~;«>

_‘ unaware of the risks of using or possessing drugs while

foreign jails but cannot get them released. I would be

- approaches.

   
   

  

aés:r,<>’y,ai1y 

 ‘nieban ;»:11_ j, heldfiom _9;;sdp.x§t. tqisoainiiaest 1
diienieitainiiig’ FancyjDress. .1-look’ ‘

   

 

  
  

 

     State

    

. / Each  many  ' tudents serve time in for-
eign jails‘ or ‘await trail indetention because they were

overseas. Many young Americans are also arrested in
foreign lands because of the inappropriate behavior as-
sociated with heavy drinking. 7

The Bureau of Consular Affairs is responsible for the
protection and welfare of US. citizens abroad. U.S. con-
sular oﬁicers can visit American citizens being held in

grateful for your assistance in reminding your readers of
theirnportance of obeying all foreign laws when navel-
ling abroad. _

Additional travel safety information can be viewed and
downloaded from the Consular Aﬂairs’ home page on the
Internet at http://travel.state.gove, including the ﬂyer
“Going Abroad?” and the pamphlet “Travel Warning on
Drugs Ahmad.” Both provide the “hard facts" about the
dangers of carrying or using drugs while overseas.

Thank you for your cooperation in this effort to alert
American students to these risks and their consequences
as the season of spring breaks and summer vacations

Sincerely,
Madeleine K. Albright

 

 
 

__tions open to victims

 

PAGE 4

I 5 : I @112 iﬁing-tum iﬂlri

 

MARCH 1, 1999

Editor ’s note: Rape is an extremely sensitive issue, and
in the stories that follow, both sides hold very strong opin-
ions. This is a complicated matter with blurred lines that
we 've tried to deal with in the most responsible way pos-
sible. Thus, we ’ve tried to present the sides of both an
accuser and an accused, although they were involved in
separate cases.

She says:
victimized twice

“There was this guy sitting next to me on the couch 
He ended up walking me into the bathroom in the base-
ment and we were making out, and basically, he undressed
me and he turned me up against the bathroom wall and he
started to have anal sex with me. I ﬂipped out at that point,

and I remember saying
“no” or “stop”. . .
Then he left
and I
passed out
on the floor
of the bath-
room and
was there
for a couple
hours.”

This was
t h e
drunken in-
troduction
‘. to college
3‘ life for
“Julia” dur-
ing her
f r e s h m a n
year at
Wa s h in g -

ton and Lee University, a school known for its Honor Sys-
tem.

Yet no sense of honor protected her from one of the
most horrifying experiences a woman can suffer, an experi-
ence she suffered at the hands of a fellow student.

Julia is not alone. Two rape cases came before the Stu-
dent Faculty Hearing Board last year, including hers. Esti-
mates of other cases that go unreported run high.

Julia did not report the incident right away. She waited
until the end of her sophomore year, when she says an
article about campus rape that ran in The Ring-tum Phi
persuaded her ﬁnally to come forward and press charges
within the bounds of the university judicial system. V

I There are no cases of rape involving students being
/tried criminally on record within recent years in Lexington.
Of the few women who do decide to go forward with
charges, like Julia, most decide to do so within the W&L
judicial process, which means the SFHB.

' “I wasn’t really told about all of my different options, I
suppose. I did hear some, and I went to see some of the
_deans,” she said. “I realize now I could have gone through
civil court.”

1 Junior Meredith Welch, who has proposed reforms to
the SFHB hearing process, is suggesting steps to increase
victim awareness.

“I think we could prevent a lot of sexual assault and
help out a lot of the people who are assaulted if wejust tell
them about their options and their resources,” Welch said.
. These options include the possibility of taking the of-

fender to criminal court. In order to make a case in criminal
court, the accuser must have proof.

“I know that one of the big problems for criminal court
is that you have to have concrete evidence —— which a lot
of girls don’t have,” Julia said. “That needs to be taught

right from the beginning: you need to get to a doctor imme-
. diately, and you get evidence the next day or that night.”
Professor Nancy Margand says that this
is also a problem in SFHB trials. According
L to Margand, never once has a victim come
, ‘forward with medical evidence.
Another option that many victims
, are unaware of is the possibility of
taking an offender before the Execu-
; tive Committee, and charging an
‘honor violation. A victim may also
;.ﬁle a complaint without com-
. mitting herself to further ac-
. tion.
A woman may report
the assault to Dean
, Anece McCloud and
.. leave it at that; she can
. go onto ﬁll out an in-
wcident report that will
. ‘be kept on ﬁle with-
,,out initiating an
[honor system pro-
;. _ceeding, or report
. the incident and
.,try mediation,
;..:again without
.;,.initiating an
_ honor system
.. proceeding.
These are all ac-

  
  

immediately following as- ,
,.sault, without the added burden of
..:_having to decide whether or not to ﬁle fomral charges.
,, _ After her trial, Julia had some procedural issues herself.
A The defendant in her case was given a two-day suspen-
,,‘,sion during the last week of spring term ofhis senior year.

He was not allowed to walk with his class at graduation,
but graduated nonetheless. ' .
. “I went to talk to Dean [David] Howison about it,” Julia
said. “He basically told me that they felt that this guy had
a good job lined up for after he graduated, and if he was

  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
 
  

suspended it would jeopardize his career and they didn’t
feel that it was worth it. So they didn’t really do anything
to him. That was his reason. It had nothing to do with the
case, it had nothing to do with whether this guy was a
threat to still be on campus  Based almost entirely on his
grades or his academic performance and hisjob  I don’t
quite know what to do with that.”

Howison could not comment on the speciﬁcs of indi-
vidual cases.

Conﬁdentiality was another strong issue for Julia.

“I was going through this hearing and it was the most
traumatic thing I’d ever been through,” Julia said. “I wasn’t
allowed to talk to anyone. And so my best friend that I live
with, that I share everything with  I couldn’t say any-
thing to her about the most important thing that had hap-
pened in my life. And I felt that as soon as I’d entered into
the trial, the support that I’d had through the school kind
of dropped off.”

Witnesses in Julia’s trial also felt that the SFHB trial
was not conducted in a completely fair or efﬁcient man-
ner. “Claire,” a witness on .lulia’s behalf, said that
her experience in the hearing brought home to her
some of the more grievous aspects of the pro-
cess.

“I deﬁnitely think there needs to be some
changes in the process, especially with re-
gard to the role of the advocate. My experi-
ence as a witnessoften made me feel like I
was the one on trial. The law school stu-
dents think they’re getting all of this
great experience by playing lawyer and
trying to win the case rather than just
bringing each party’s facts out into
the open.”

Claire also believed that the line
of questioning was often inappro-
priate. '

“I was sometimes cornered
into answering irrelevant
questions as well as
badgered until I ﬁnally
refused to answer
some of the more ridiculous ones,” she said. “The problem
with that, however, is that when you plead the Fifth
[Amendment] in a situation like that, it looks like you’re
hiding something and you’re not able to help the accuser.
It doesn’t look like you’rejust trying to keep some ofyou
dignity intact.” A

Another witness, “Nicole,” believes the process was
unfair for Julia. “After she had to go through a trial that
revealed every aspect of her personal life to students and
faculty members, she had to face the fact that her efforts
meant almost nothing to the administration,” Nicole said.
“I remember talking to her about the decision. We initially
thought it sounded positive. It was a guilty verdict [for
sexual misconduct]. But then we ﬁnally understood that
the appeal reduced his sentence to almost nothing.

“Julia was never out to ruin this guy’s life. She just
wanted him to realize that he had done something wrong.

She needed that closure,” Nicole said.

“Because the administration reduced his punishment
so greatly, I don‘t think he’ ll ever realize the heinous rami-
ﬁcations of his act,” she said. “He was let off. She has to
live with the consequences every day.”

To name a name . . .

In the midst of outcry over recent verdicts handed down
by the Student Faculty Hearing Board, junior Meredith
Welch is calling for full disclosure of names of the con-
victed.

In a September proposal, Welch called for a complete
reform of W&L’s policies on handling charges of sexual
assault. W&L’s Student Affairs Committee is currently tak-
ing her proposal under consideration in a procedural re-
view. ‘

“After they come up with a proposal, they’re going
to bring it back to the students in some form,” Welch
said. “And if they get student approval, they’re

planning on sending it to the faculty for a vote, I

believe in April.”

SFHB chair Barbara Brown, university librar-
ian, foresees possible problems with disclosing
offender’s names to the W&L community.

“If we publish the names of the individual who

was found guilty of something, with the kinds of
issues that the SFHB deals with, the concern I

would have is that the persons would become a
pariah and ostracized in ways that are not in
keeping with what the punishment was,”

Brown said.

Others, however, argue that the same
standards should apply on the W&L cam-
pus as in the court system.

“Once you’re in the real world and you
commit a violent, or even a nonviolent
. crime, as long as you’re over 18, your

' name is published,” sophomore Heather

McDonald said at a disclosure forum.

“To be lulled into a false sense of se-
' : curity within our realm of W&L is not
necessarily a good thing.”

Naming names of the convicted
is not as important to others as is
disclosing the facts of cases and

verdicts. Knight Professor of Jour-
nalism Louis Hodges is more con-
cerned that students are educated
about the possible consequences
of their actions, as well as allowed
access to infomiation about’ac—
taken by campus judicial bod-
than told the actual names of

tions

i e s ,

convicted students.
“First, we really need a watchdog to watch over even

our bestjudicial bodies,” Hodges said. “And secondly, to

do so, and to publish the results, to reveal the issues at

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   

stake and the, actions taken, would have a major educa-
tional impact on everybody in the student body.”

Education is an important issue. Senior Patrick
McCorrnack, secretary of the Student Judicial Committee,
recently conducted a poll to determine students’ levels of
awareness, as well as their opinions, of campus judiciary
bodies.

“Students admitted that they didn’t really know what
was going on as far as thejudicial systems were concerned,
but that didn’t seem to bother them,” McCorrnack said.
“They ﬁgure as long as someone else is worrying about it,
they don’t have to.”

McCom1ack’s poll indicated that 46.4 percent of the '

W&L undergraduate student body favored the disclosure
of the results of SFHB hearings. When asked how conﬁ-
dent they were in the abilities of the SFHB to adjudicate

cases of sexual misconduct, 23.1 percent said not conﬁ- ‘

dent or barely conﬁdent, 40.6 percent were neutral or had
no opinion, 27.5 percent were somewhat conﬁdent, and 8.7
percent were very conﬁdent.

“My personal feeling is that we ought to have open
trials,” McCorrnack said. “Aside from full disclosure

about names and charges, I don’t think that there’s any
way to do what should be done. We have to have
some sort of check on ourjudicial system.”

Howison also recognizes the lack of awareness
within the student body as a problem.

“I think we need more education,” Howison
said. “There’s no question that there’s not the
kind of awareness of these procedures that we
need to achieve, and that will be a goal of the
Student Affairs Committee as we review the
whole sexual misconduct policy.”

Welch says that many students she talks
to about her proposal do not even know
what the SFHB is, much less what it does.

Recently, the SFHB has come under ﬁre,
not only for its secrecy, but also for not
being harsh enough in its punishment
of accused rapists and for being too
hard on the plaintiffs.

Trials of the
SFHB

Welch has
been leading that
charge against
some of the
SFHB’s proce-
dures.

“I’ve been
very unhappy
with the out-
come ofthe tri-
als,” Welch
said. “I don’t
think that the
punishments
that are meted
out are any-
where equal to
the crimes com-
mitted. I’d like
to see stricter
punishments
that are more
consistently
applied. People
[the accused]
tend to get
breaks if they
have ajob lined
up at Microsoft
or something
that might be
jeopardized.”

Howison ac-
knowledges that
the existing system
could be improved.

“I think there are
some procedural issues
on the actual complaint
process, the hearing pro-
cess, that we can reﬁne,”
Howison said. “And we’ll
also look at that  Yes, there
are some improvements that
need to be made.”

SFHB trials are conducted un-
der a blanket of conﬁdentiality.
All those involved, be they board
members, witnesses, defendant or
plaintiff, are prohibited from discuss-
ing the trial with anyone.

Welch contends that both the accused
and the accuser need someone to talk to
during the trial, but admits that afterwards,
the lines are not clearly drawn as to what can
be discussed and what cannot.

“I know that a lot ofthe girls that have been
through trials aren’t sure ifthey can talk about
it or not, so they’rejust talking about it,” Welch
said. “There’s a lot ofambiguity in the system
and it needs to be cleared up.“ _

Howison himself isn‘t sure where the
boundaries should be set.

“The hearing standards are that the
process is conﬁdential, so that‘s certainly
the expectation," Howison said. “I think
that we can get all tied up in rules and
regulations of who you can talk to and
who you can’t talk to. My standard is
just reasonableness. If you say can the

  
 

person never utter the name of the person she accused
and found guilty, I’d say no, that’s not realistic. At some
point, the person [accuser] has the right to talk about the
[accused] person.”

In being denied their natural support systems, Welch
points out, victims actually have little incentive to report a
rape.

“While a man may receive only a mild suspension for
assaulting a woman, she may be dismissed from the uni-
versity for conﬁding in a friend about the trial,” Welch
said. “Few women come forward when they have
been raped, both because they do not know
how to proceed and because they have
little reason to expect it will be worth
the time and emotional trauma.”

SFHB guidelines currently list be-
ing “sanctioned” as punishment for
breaking conﬁdentiality. Only wit-
nesses in trials are not named spe-
ciﬁcally in the prohibition. The
SFHB itself, however, would
have nothing to do with the
punitive process, which is
handled by the Ofﬁce of the
Dean of Students.

“We need to recognize
that anytime you have disci-
plinary hearings that are es-
sentially held in private and
are kept secret, you have a
potentially dangerous situ-
ation on your hands,”
Hodges said. “Therefore
the bias ought to be on
the side of openness
rather than secrecy.”

For the victims
who are speaking
out, the emphasis
is already on
openness.

  
  
 
 
  
 
  

  

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
   

 

h4ARcH1,1999

@112 {King-tum lﬂlti

IFE

 

PAGES_

1
tion penalty: expulsion.
C  Joe was assigned an advocate, a third-year law stu-
' dent, and asked to assemble a list of those he would like to

  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
    
    
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
   
  
   
  
   
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
    
   

call as witnesses in his defense. He named his two room-
mates and a few close friends who could testify about the
nature of his relationship with Amy.

One of the witnesses Joe called was a close female friend,
“Sophie,” who was in turn contacted by his advocate.

“It was the most horrible moment of my life,” she said,
“to know that somebody you’ve loved and trusted for
more than two years, who has never once done anything
inappropriate to you, has been accused of something like
this. At first, I thought ‘I can’t do this.’ And at moments
like that you’re thinking that it could actually be true.”

The witnesses were called, and the opening statements
written, and Joe and Amy prepared to face each other in
front of the Student Faculty Hearing Board, which deals
primarily with questions of sexual assault.

On the day of the trial, Amy’s witnesses testified for
five hours. In contrast, J oe’s friends and roommates were

Vve need a watchdog

They met during freshman year at Washington and Lee

University. People gazed at the handsome couple they

made; he, a man of the world, she, religious and
innocent.

Now they have different labels;
she calls herself a “rape vic-
tim" and him “rapist.”

And the only two
people who will ever
know what actually
took place have
completely dif-
ferent stories.

The rela— given about an hour and a half.
t i o n s h i p Because Joe and Amy had different circles of friends,
ended after Amy’s witnesses could only testify as to what she had
more than a told them about Joe. Joe’s best friend, “Tyler,” was the
year one only crossover witness, as he knew both Joe and Amy

well.

“I thought that the decision had been made before any-
thing had happened,” Tyler said. “Another witness who
followed me was told ‘we don’t want to hear about his
character, we don’t want to hear anything, we just want to
know what happened.’ And of course, the only people
who could answer that were [Joe] and [Amy].”

“One of [Amy’s] witnesses testified that I was capable

January, and
two months
later “Joe” was

notified that he
was being
charged with
rape. The plain-
tiff was his ex-

g i rl fr i e n d, of rape,” Joe said. “She didn’t know me. She judged me
“Amy,” and based on what [Amy] told her. Another male friend said
she was that he didn’t know me well, but that he wanted to hunt me

down and slit my throat. That was accepted.”
Joe feels that the board put him at an even greater
disadvantage by denying him character witnesses.
“A rape case is very complicated,” Joe said.
“I felt that my rights were vio-
» ~ " >  lated, but fiankly,inthat mo-
ment I couldn’t think ratio-
nally. It is essential to
have character
witnesses
«3, _ for both
I I. ,. . “*«, ( sides to de-
' ‘X termine if a
person has
certain ten-
dencies.. I
wasn’t al-
lowed any
character wit-
nesses. The
board turned
them down, say-
ing that they
weren’t relevant
to the case.”
Sophie, who
planned to give
/ character testi-
mony concerning
her own relationship
with Joe, was denied
. the opportunity to
speak.
“His counsel told me
that she’d call me back
 to let me know exactly
what was going on, but
the call never came,”
Sophie said. “I had to ask
[Joe] what was going on,
and he said that without
notifying me, the board de-
cided that my presence
wasn’t required because I
would be biased.”

Joe’s actions were also
questioned by the board be-
cause he had never men-
tioned his sexual involvement

with Amy to any of his friends.
“The [student board mem-
ber] asked me why I didn’t go
out and tell people that I had got-

ten laid,” Joe said. “The way I was
brought up, you don’t do that, it’s

something that’s private.”

As a result, Joe questions the abili-

ties and training that board members

have.

“Their attitudes toward my witnesses

was completely different from how they
treated her witnesses,” Joe said. “I felt that

the board members were not qualified at all. First

of all, you don’t take hearsay accounts, which
they allowed on [Amy’s] side. Those people [wit-
nesses] were not there, they didn’t know what was

going on.” .

“The case itself was based on one person’s

word against the other’s,” Sophie said. “And

in this case, she’s a tiny, virginal girl with a

very conservative background where he’s

bigger, more liberal and experienced.” V

3 Throughout the trial, the intimate as-
pects concerning the sexual relation-

ship between Joe and Amy were dis-

cussed in detail. And it was here

that the biggest differences be-.

tween their stories occurred.

Amy contended in her ini-

tial statement that she had

had sex with Joe fewer than

three times after the ﬁrst,

which she considered

asking for
a single-
sanc-

.; .V..,:\,’ - '0'/.N

 

      

   
  

  
  

W&

 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

rape. After Joe’s roommates testiﬁed that she had visited
him multiple times over a three-month period, however,
Amy changed her testimony. According to Joe, no one on
the board took note of the differences between her initial
assertion and her testimony during the trial.

Initially, the SFHB found Joe guilty of sexual miscon-
duct. It ordered him to write a report to the board, and ruled
that a second conviction would result in automatic expul-
sion. The board notiﬁed Joe through his advocate, who
subsequently advised him that there was sufﬁcient evi-
dence to sue for violating his rights as a defendant, i.e.
innocent until proven guilty. Instead, he opted to appeal.

“Their attitude toward me and handling of my witnesses .
were clearly discriminatory. They acted as though they
had already made their decision,” Joe said. “At the appeal,
I asked Professor Margand [then head ofthe SFHB] what
the grounds were for convicting me. She said that they
‘felt’ I was wrong.”

The appellate board reduced the punishment to manda-

tory counseling, as well as a re-
striction that Joe not live
in the same apartment
complex as Amy.

“I didn’t like
their decision,”
Tyler said, “be-
cause it seemed
like they couldn’t
commit. And
their justification
was that he didn’t
rape her, but he treated
her improperly. And so their punishment was
to teach him how to treat her properly. Nei-
ther side felt vindicated.”

For those involved, the trial left them with
confusion about preconceived notions re-
garding rape. Sophie and Tyler both profess
that they initially accepted the charge
against their friend Joe without question.

‘‘I think that our society sympathizes
with girls,” Sophie said, “and thinks that rape charges
must be true, otherwise, they wouldn’t go through the
process. Guys are at a definite disadvantage because of
this bias unless there is very definite and clear physical
evidence.”

“[Joe] was very fair, he showed both sides,” Tyler said.
“He was the first one involved to say, ‘she feels wronged.
Regardless of what I did or did not do, she feels
wronged.’”

According to Joe, however, the relationship was purely
consensual. Amy refused to comment on the case.

“There was no proof presented that said I had done
something wrong,” Joe said. “It was my word against hers,
and I wasn’t allowed the same opportunity to "defend my-
self. And after a year of questioning what went wrong [in
the relationship], I know that I’m innocent.” ‘

“In my opinion, rape is something you don’t want at
the time,” Tyler said. “You can’t change your mind a few
weeks later.”

Joe is left with feelings of betrayal and anger. He has
decided to remain at W&L for the time being, but is over-
whelmed at that idea that his ex-girlfriend attends meet-
ings advocating disclosure and classifies herself as a rape
victim. He asks students to think twice about the reliability
of the process itself, before asking for the disclosure of
names based on the SFHB’s rulings.

“The whole trial proved to me that there is no justice,
and that is basically depends on people’s perspectives
and then how one successfully manipulates if'3esystem,”
he said.

If it happens to you

Rape is an enormous trauma for a person to endure. If it
happens to you, however, remember that the decisions
you make immediately following the attack will be vital to
any criminal investigation, whether
that be within the W&L system
or in a criminal court.

The decision to
report a sexual as-
sault is an ex-
tremely difficult
one, but only by
reporting a crime
can any semblance
of justice be found.

In order to pros-
ecute in a criminal
court, a sexual as-
sault victim must have
physical evidence of the
crime. It is important,
therefore, not to bathe,
change clothes or
clean up in any

way following

an assault. Do-

ing this could

destroy the legal '
evidence neces-

sary to the case.

Immediately
seek medical atten-
tion in order. to ad-
dress any injuries, in-
cluding those of which
you might not even be
aware.

A thorough medical examination will assist you in de-
tennining any health concems related to the crime and
assist law enforcement in developing a criminal case. Re-
member to seek a follow-up examination to check for an
unwanted pregnancy or sexually transmitted diseases re-
sulting from the assault.

Whether you decide to prosecute a sexual perpetrator

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

in a criminal court, you can also take your case to the
SFHB, or the Student Faculty Hearing Board. Thisjudi-
cialibody is composed of both W&L students and fac—' V
ulty and deals primarily with cases of sexual misconduct“
involving members of the W&L community. -I

If you need to report a rape or talk to a-confidential «
adviser about a sexual assault, the following telephone 1‘
numbers are beneﬁcial: 

Lexington Police Department
911 or463-9177

Stonewall Jackson Hospital
462-1200

Virginia Statewide Sexual Assault Hotline
1-800-838-8238

Project Horizon Hotline
463-2594

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

R a" p e
Rockbridge
Area

463-7273

Other good
sources of help are
the donn counse-
lor / resident assis-
tant on-call sys-
tem, the peer coun-
selor network, the
W&L counseling
service and the in-
firmary. All of
these services are
available to help
you and pro-
tect your
rights.

By Polly Doig,

Do your part

The Phi has a two—fold purpose in printing these sto"3
ries. The first is to increase awareness. Even though we
live in a community governed by honor, rape is an event
that occurs with shocking frequency.

Yet W&L men and women can greatly reduce the risk_'s
of becoming a victim by simply not placing themselves in .
situations that lend themselves to danger. The majority
of rapes are not the random, violent attacks by strangers,
but rather the drunken blurring of lines by someone known
to the victim. Protect yourself by avoiding binge drink-
ing, avoiding going alone with another person to an iso-
lated place and being loudly vocal in your protests if
someone tries to take advantage of you. We know that
even one rape each year is one rape too many, and no one
deserves to be a victim and be put through the shame
and pain of this ordeal.

Be aware, and take precautions. ‘

The second purpose is to make the W&L community
aware of what is taking place behind closed doors. Virtu-
ally IOO percent of the people involved in SFHB trials
whom we have talked to, both on and off the record, have
been extremely dissatisfied with the procedures and out-
comes of these trials. "

Both Julia and Joe have bravely risked “sanction” in
breaking the confidentiality demanded by the SFHB. Pos-

sible discipline in reaction to this breach will be handled
by the Office of the Dean of Students.
Both Julia and Joe are aware of this possibility,
yet went ahead with the interviews in orderto
make the student body aware of the problems
with the existing system.
The reform process is currently under-
way. The Student Affairs Committee is re-
viewing current SFHB procedures, and
students can have a voice in the deci-
sions reached. Thejudicial bodies of
W&L are supposed to reﬂect the
opinion of the current
student genera-
tion. _“
This is an
impossible
goal, however,
if the student
body does
_ not make ‘its
voice heard.
Do not wait
until you are the
one sitting on the
witness stand. Listen
to what Joe and Julia
have said, and form your
own opinions on disclosure,
punishment, confidentiality and
procedures. They have taken a huge
risk to make you aware oftheir experiences.
Can we afford to have campusjudicial bodies op-
erating behind closed doors? Can we risk confidenti-
ality by having trials out in the open, or by naming
names? ‘
Go ahead. Do it. Get involved. The ball is in your
court. '

1

— Executive Editor Hollister Hovey contributed to this
story. All artwork by Hollister Hovey. ’

 

PAGE 6

@112 Ring-tum lﬂhi

SPORTS

MARCH 1, 1999

Women’s basketball ends season in ODAC tournament

By Tod Williams

SPORTS WRITER

While most students went skiing, home or somewhere
warmer for break, the Washington and Lee women’s bas-
ketball team had no intentions of going anywhere. And
their dedication paid off. Their season ended on Friday for
the women, but they walked away with the most wins in a
season, both overall and conference, in the program's his-
tory, as well as the ﬁrst appearance in a semiﬁnal confer-
ence tournament game.

Randolph-Macon proved too powerful for the Generals
for the third time this season, as the two teams met in the
semifinal round of the ODAC tournament. The Yellow Jack-
ets went into the locker room in front of the Generals 24-12,
after the Generals had cut the lead from 15. The Generals
were only 5-26 (19%) from the floor in the ﬁrst half.

But the Generals never counted themselves, out, and
they came out rolling. They scored the ﬁrst 12 points of
the second half to knot the game at 24-24 with 13:31. Randy-

Women’s
tennis loses,
men win

By Frances Groberg

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s tennis team im-
proved its record to 2-1 on Saturday with its 6-1 whip-
ping of Guilford on Saturday. The team played Meth-
odist at Guilford on Sunday, but as of press time,
results were unavailable.

In singles on Saturday, sophomore Kelly Radford,
senior Scott Babka, freshman Rhys James, senior
Dave Lehman, and freshman Andrew Roberts all de-
feated their opponents in straight sets.

All three doubles teams also posted victories, in-
cluding senior Dale Pretila/Babka, Radford/Roberts,
and James/senior Tom Washbum.

The men suffered a narrow loss on Thursday at
the hands of Radford College, 4-3. Wins in singles
were posted by James, Lehman and Roberts, and in
doubles by the team of James/Washbum.

The team will take on Hampden-Sydney on Thurs-
day beginning at 3 :00 p.m.

The women’ s team lost its season opener to Sewanee
6-3. General victories were posted by junior Brook
Hartzell and freshman Marming Willard in singles, and
freshman Sallie Gray Strang/Willard in doubles.

“Although it was a disappointing start to the sea-
son, it was a good eye-opener for the team, and once
we get a few more matches under our belt, we’ll all
raise the level of play and be a tough team to beat,”
sophomore Tori Hays said.

The women will try to avenge the loss when
they take on Virginia Wesleyan on Monday start-

ing at 3 p.m. -

Mac’s first basket came from a layup by forward Bren Elliott
with 13:06 remaining. V

The Jackets then turned their two-point lead into 11
before the Generals made their last run to pull within ﬁve,
40-35, with only 4:42 leﬁ to play. From there, it was all over,
as the Jackets cruised to a 20-point win. Randolph-Ma-
con outscored the Generals 16-1 in the last four-and—a-half
minutes of the game. ,

Freshman "Megan Babst led the Generals with nine
points and 12 boards. Babst averaged more than 1 1 re-
bounds a game in the last three of the season. Senior
Chrissy Burghardt scored six points and pulled down nine
rebounds in her ﬁnal game as a General. She ﬁnishes her
W&L career with 1,080 points, making her the all-time lead-
ing scorer.

During halftime, Burghardt said, “We decided that we
weren’t giving up because we didn't want the season to
end. Everyone went out and gave 122%.” She said late in
the game shots weren’t falling and some calls didn't go the
Generals’ way, but the team proved it wasn’t giving up.

“I’ve got a lot of different emotions now,” Burghardt
said following her last game. ‘‘I’m really sad it’s over.” She
is very pleased, however, that the program is on the up-
swing. “The girls will do great next year,” she said. “I'm
really proud of the way we ended up.”

Freshman Jessica Mentz totaled eight points and seven
rebounds in the game. She ﬁnished with 393 points on the
year, well on her way to scoring more than 1,500 career
points. Mentz averaged 15.1 points a game, but she also
had the team’s highest shooting percentage, 57.3%.

Mentz said the transition to the college level was hard

at first, but she eventually “got into the swing of it.” Mentz‘

said she is very thankful the “guards have the faith to get
me the ball down low.” With the loss of Burghardt, addi-
tional pressure will fall on Mentz next year both in the
paint and in the scoring column, but she expects Babst to
ﬁll the role next year. “She’ll be a big factor next year,”
Mentz said.

The Jackets had three players post 11 points apiece,
Aimee Beightol, Renee Zando and Jamie Tanner. Tanner

was 3-for-7 from behind the arch. _

The ﬁfth-seeded Generals earned the right to face
Randolph-Macon in the semis after ousting fourth-seeded
Virginia-Wesleyan in the ﬁrst round. W&L turned the ball
more than 28 times in the game, but out-rebounded the
Marlins 46-22., The 61-49 win was the Generals’ first ever
in the ODAC Tournament.

Jessica Morton led all scorers with 15 points, while Babst
added in 12 points and 12 rebounds, both career highs, for
her second career double-double. Burghardt scored 1 1 and
Nancy Mattox led Virginia Wesleyan with 10 points.

The Generals won their last regular season game by
defeating Eastern Mennonite 66-61. The Generals led by
as much as 15 during the second half, but the Royals got
to within two with only 21 seconds left before the Generals
beat them off with a stick. Mentz led the Generals with 20
points and 10 boards. '

The Generals finished the season at .500 overall, 13-13,
and were 11-9 in ODAC play. W&L won three of its last
four games.

 Men’s lacrosse starts season with a whipping

Dougherty had 30 goals and 27 as-

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

Freshman Eric Kontargyris prepares to release a pass during the game
against Cabrini on Saturday afternoon. The generals destroyed Cabrini 26-4.

By Brendan Harrington
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s la-
crosse team opened the 1999 season
in a big way on Saturday afternoon.

The Generals destroyed the Cabrini
College Cavaliers 26-4 as sophomore
midﬁelder Matt Dugan had six goals
and four assists and junior attackman
Chris Brown tal-

sists last season and was an all-ODAC
first team selection. He has been
named a third-team preseason All-
American for this upcoming season.
The Generals, who went 13-3 last sea-
son and advanced to the quarterﬁnals of

the NCAA tournament, return a number of .

lied six goals and C C
three assists.
S o p h 0 m o r e
midﬁelder Pope
Hackney scored

We’re going to
 Out  away ' defense back.

quality players.
“Our main strength this year is our ex-
perience,” W&L
head coach Jim

Stagnitta said.
“We have our
entireattackand

four goals, all of , We’re balanced
them in the first how g00d We re acrosstheboard
half. ' and that’s oin
The Generals golng to be‘ tobenice.§ g
jumped out to a The Gener-
3-0 1ead with —— Coach Jim Stagnitta 315, who were
8:42 left in the  ranked sev-
ﬁrst quarter, but enth in the na-

Cabrini scored twice in a span of 13 sec-
onds to make it 3-2. That was as close
as the Cavaliers would get, however, as
the Generals scored 10 straight goals to
open up a 13-2 lead. The Cavaliers ended
the streak with 7:05 left in the second
quarter on a goal by freshman midﬁelder
Tom Lemieux.

The Generals then scored 13
straight goals to make the score 26-3.
The Cavaliers tallied the ﬁnal goal of
the game to make the ﬁnal score 26-4.

The Generals outshot the Cavaliers
49-15 and won 21 of the 3 1 faceoffs.

Junior attackman Colin Dougherty,
who is on pace to become the all-time
leading scorer in W&L history, saw
limited action because of a shoulder
injury but still had two assists.

tion in a preseason pole by Faceoff
magazine, now move into the tough-
est part of their schedule. Next Satur-

day they travel to Maryland to take ,

on Washington College, the defend-
ing national champions and second-
ranked team in the nation. The follow-
ing Saturday the Generals travel to
fifth-ranked Gettysburg.

The Generals last faced Washing-
ton in 1996 in a 15-5 loss in Lexington.
W&L has beaten Gettysburg each of
the last three seasons. .

“We’re going to find out right away
how good we’re going to be,”
Stagnitta said. ‘‘If we come out of
those games all right, we know we’ll
be prepared for NCAA tournament
play if we get there.”

Women’s swimming wins ODAC, men swim well at SouthernStates

By Steele Cooper

SPORTS WRITER

On Sunday, Feb. 21, at the ODAC Championships and
Southern States Championships the men and women of
Washington and Lee swimming made impressive show-
ings and solid possibilities for the NCAA meet. The women
came away with the ODAC Championship and the men
ﬁnished ninth against a strong crowd of Division 1 teams.

Leading the Generals to victory once again was senior
Margaret Hoehl. She broke her meet and school record in
the 1650-free with a time of 17:46.21, earning an RBS cut for
the NCAA championships.

Other winners for W&L were freshman Cynthia Smith
in the 100-free (56:00), junior Lauren Beckenhauer in the
200-back (2:15), and senior Courtney Tyler in the 200-ﬂy
(2226.71). The Generals completed the 1-2 sweep in the 200-
back and 200-ﬂy with second place ﬁnishes respectively
by junior Lezeal Haynes (2:19), and freshman Maggie Fagan
(2231.04). .

The women also won the 400-free relay with impressive
performances by freshman Beth Newton, Haynes, Smith,
and Hoehl. , ’

The men ﬁnished ninth in the Southern States Champi-
onships held at Davidson. The 200-medley relay ﬁnished
seventh with sophomores Colin Hayes, Rob Little, and

Men’s track 3rd, women 4th at ODAC meet

By Frances Groberg

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s
and women’s track teams earned third
and fourth honors, respectively, at the
ODAC tournament held at VMl’s in-
door track on Saturday.

For the men,junior Frank Steams
and freshman Justin Novak earned
ﬁfth and eighth in the 800-meter run
with times of2:08.l4 and 2: 1 3.1 1, re-
spectively, and senior Darrick
Alford and sophomore Bryant
Adams ran to sixth and eighth in the
1500-meter run with times of 4: 15.90
and 4:35 .92.

Alford also earned second in the
3,000-meter run with a time of 9:36.83.
Senior Joe Bestic ran third in the 55-
meter high hurdles with a time of 8.40.

The 4x 1 00 and 4x800 meter relays
from W&L each earned fourth place
with times of47. 12 and 9:08.39, and
the 4x400 earned second with a time
of 3:38.22.

Senior Mark Granger threw the
shotput 40 ft, 10 inches to earn sec-

ond place, and his teammate sopho-
more Chris Wahl threw 38 it, 9.25 inches
to earn ﬁfth.

For the women,junior Jill Kosch
ran the 200-meter dash in 28:64 and
the 400-meter dash in 1:04.08 to
earn fourth place in each event.
Senior Lisa Brennan and sopho-
more Kathleen Moroney earned
second and third places in the 800-
meter run with times of 2:33 and
2:35.37 respectively.

Brennan also ran to a third place

ﬁnish in the 3000-meter run in a time .,

of1l:42.57.

The women’s 4x400-meter relay
earned third place wiht a time of
4:28.20. , and the 4x800 team earned
first, with atime oflO:38.67.

“We had wonderful leadership
during the indoor season,” Coach
John Tucker said. “Everyone ran
their best times ofthe season so far,
and we’re looking forward to get-
ting outdoors.”

The outdoor spring track sea-
son opensvon March 13, with the
W&L invitational.

Photo by Emily BaePhoto Eito
Sophomore Kathleen Moroney runs to catch
up at the ODAC meet Saturday at VMI.

Mike Miraglia, and junior Jared Fribush with a time of
1 239.21. Hayes ﬁnished second in the 200-ﬂy with atirne of
1:54.01.

Fribush continued his impressive swimming on the sea-
son with a career best 42. 10 in the 100-free. On Thursday,
Fribush made the NCAA “B” cut in the 50-free with a time
of 21 :2 l . He was also a part of the 200-free relay that made
the NCAA “B” cut with a school record tying 1:25.42.
Brown, junior Kenneth Ervin and Hayes also swam in that
race.

Now both teams must wait to see who will swim in the
NCAA championships to be held in Oxford, Ohio, March
1 1-13.

 

This Week 1

Golf @ Pfeiffer Invitational
Women's tennis vs. Virginia-Wesleyan, 3 :30 p.m.

Golf @ Pfeiffer Invitational

Women's lacrosse vs. Hollins, 4:30 p.m.
Women's tennis vs. Hollins, 3:30 p.m.
Women's tennis at Averett, TBA

Baseball vs. Mary Washington, 3 p.m.

Men's lacrosse @ Washington (MD), TBA
Women's lacrosse @ Denison, TBA

I Baseball vs. Washington and Jefferson (DH), 1 p.m.

Monday

Tuesday

Wednesday

Thursday

Saturday

Sunday

 ‘ »   - : u   .::.—i:~r; "r--F. <cs'r::r\»‘”.‘=-<.

 

 

MARCH 1, 1999

‘1


HAPPY  
BIRTHDAY,
MONTE!  

€4.49’

  ,.  -'

Paid Advertisement

-{Ba"seball starts 1999 season
, right behind strong pitching

1

at

V1

)1

1

By Tod Williams

SPORTS WRITER

It may still be winter, but the Boys of Summer have been
hard at work for quite a while now. After going 2-3 in the
1999 Rawlings College Baseball Tournament in Phoenix,
Arizona, the Washington and Lee baseball team returned
to Lexington to beat Muhlenberg in both games of a double-
header on Saturday.

Senior pitcher Bob Weston (3-0) got the win in the Gen-
erals’ first game, as he struck out six Mules, failing to walk
a batter. Weston gave up only ﬁve hits and has given up
only one run in his 21 innings of work this year. Weston’s
ERA is 0.43. ’

Both of the Generals’ two runs came in the bottom of
the seventh inning in the 2-1 win. With one out, freshman
Matt Kozora reached on an error by the shortstop, and he
advanced to second after junior David Hanson reached on
an error by the Muhlenberg first baseman. Both runners
advanced on junior Schuyler Marshal1’s sacriﬁce. Kozora
then scored to tie the game, and Hanson reached third on
a wild pitch from Muhelnberg’ s Marc Lenzinski. Junior des-
ignated hitter Andy Thompson then singled Hanson home
to give W&L the 2-1 win.

In the second game of the doubleheader, the Generals
scored once in both the second and third inning and twice
in the sixth to clench the 4-1 win. Junior Christian Batcheller
and Kozora both went 2-for-3 in the game. Sophomore David
Sigler threw the complete game for the Generals, allowing
only six hits and giving up two walks. Now 1-1, he fanned
six Mules.

The Generals defeated Rhodes 1-0 in their first game of
the year in the Rawlings tourney. Weston’s no-hitter was
the first for W&L since 1980. The Generals lost their fol-
lowing game 9-3 to Hendrix. Senior catcher E.J. Murphy
went 3-for-4 for the Generals.

The Generals were then blown out by Ponoma-Pitzer, 16-
0, using six men on the mound, and only producing three
hits. But the Generals rallied to beat Hendrix in their second
matchup 1 -0. Weston threw a three-hitter, striking out three,
walking two. Only three runners reached first base.

Rhodes then defeated W&L 7-5 in the championship
game in the two teams’ second battle in the tournament.
SophomoreWill Ogilvie, who threw five innings, allowing
four runs on four hits, got the loss for the Generals. Ogilvie
is now 0-2 on the year ’

The Generals (4-3) will host Mary Washington Thurs-
day aftemoon at 3:00 at Smith Field.

0 C
Statistics
Senior sec- Washington and Lee (4-3)
ond baseman
getsahit Stakem..... 2 00 0 0 1 0 0
d. th Hall ......... ..200000l3
“mg ‘f Batcheller.. .3 12 0 o 0 0 0
G°“°“"s - Murphy... 3 1 1 0 0 0 o 0
SW06? Of  Kozora..... 3 1 2 ,1 0 0 2 1
Muhlenberg Marshall.... 0 0 0 1 1 0 2 o
onsaturday ’Wren'n..... 2 0 1 1 1 1 7 1
afternoon, Lewis ...... .. 3 0 0 0 0 1 6 l
The Generals Hanson.... 2 1 1 0 0 0 2 2
take on Mary Sigler ........ .. 00 0 0 0 0 1 2
Washington Total ........ .. 204 7 3 2 3 2110
this Thursday
stamng at 3 Score by innings
p.m.

RHE
MC O000100—l 6 2
W&L 011002 —470

Photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Editor

PAGE 7

KAPPA D€LTA’S  
SHAMROCK
‘PROJECT

 

4- 3 "ON 3 BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
-t- SUNDAY, MARCH 14
-t- SIGN-UPS THROUGH MARCH 5 IN FRONT OF CO-OP
’ -1- CASH PRIZES
-1- GUARANTEED 3 GAMES

-1- FREE PIZZA AFTER TOURNAMENT

-7- PROJECT BENEFITS NATIONAL CENTER FOR THE

PREVENTION OF CHILD ABUSE AND PROJECT HORIZON

VP

 

 

 

PAGE 8

Humor Page

LAST WORD

 

MARCH 1, 1999, CHRIST,
WHERE DOES THE TIME Go?

My trip to England, the fifty-first state

By Kevin McManemin
SCREECH ’s Roaor F ROM
“SA VED BY THE BELL "

The plane touched down in
Heathrow and the captain informed
us that the weather outside was cold
and rainy — “another miserable
London morning. " As the captain’s
voice echoed through the cabin only
one thought went through my mind.‘
God, they really do speak in these
silly accents.

For my February break I wanted
warm beaches, cheap booze and beau-
tiﬁil women. My travel agent played a
crueljoke and sent me to London.

Yes, London, the largest and least
foreign city in Europe — and after liv-
ing in a place where the phrase “the
big city” refers to Roanoke, I was
ready for the change. The funny thing
was, though, there really wasn’t much
of a change.

It turns out that the British are a
very Americanized people. Walking
around Piccadilly Circus, one will ﬁnd

McDonald’s, Burger King, KFC,

Wendy’s — hell, throw in a Hardees
and Wal-Mart and we’re back in Lex-
ington. (Editor’s note: there are actu-
ally quite *a few similarities between
Lexingtonians

AWBOLLOCKS I DONE GOBBED
ON ME FISH & CHIPS.

Please call for assistance; my legs
seem to be trapped

and Londoners,
not the least of

  rm CUISINE

under this train.
ELLO ELLO,

which is bad L wor’s ALL THIS

teeth)‘ Don’t leave London with- THEN? BLOODY
1“ fa°t> ‘the out trying all of these tasty ELL

British are 5° English delicacies! Yumyum! .

Americanized But while the

that most of them

,__l:-ish & Chips Brits may have En-
even speak En- ’___Bangel.s & Mash glish down pretty
glish. The rest of _Gl.aVy & ‘Glass well, unfortunately,
them speak the _ _l__l.-lee range teletubbles, their other attempts
native dialect of I lightly roasted and topped at copying America

Great Britain:

with marinara sauce

have failed. The Brit-

cockney, a Ian- I _Camlllal5arkerl3owles= ish are a very
guage developed tampon souffle civilised (well, that’s
in the early sev- __l apologlze fortlmlastjoke’ how they spell it)

enties by Monty
Python. Here are
some translations
of basic English

. I really do. It was sick and
wrong and tasteless.‘Then4
again, so is British food. U ' -.

and polite pe/ople.
Thus, it logically fol-
lows that their talk
shows suck. We

phrases into

cockney from a London guidebook:
How much for a cup of tea?
WELL, RIGHTO, I MEAN, COR

BLIMEY, El-I GUV?
What time does the next bus arrive?

watched a British
talk show called “Trisha” on the tiny
television set in our cramped hotel
room. This episode was simply titled
“Outrageous!” People accused of
being “Outrageous!” came on the

Mel Gibson should Payback
the audience for this movie

by Brian Prisco
PHI MOVIE our

 

(Wait until TBS plays it
four days in a row)

Stabbed in the eye with a 14-inch
dagger. Doused in gasoline and lit on
ﬁre. Fed broken glass. Shot through
the face with a .357 Magnum at close
range. These aren’t scenes from the
movie, these are what I would rather
have happen to me than to be forced
to watch this movie ever again.

I was always under the impression
that if you had a dynamic cast and a
talented writer and director, you in-
stantly had to have a great movie.
Apparently I was wrong. PAYBACK,
the latest collaborative effort of Mel
Gibson (“Ransom,” “Mad Max”) and
Brian Helgeland (“Conspiracy
Theory,” “L.A. Confidential”) gives
new meaning to the term “piece of
shit.” What exactly was wrong with
the movie? Where to begin, where to
begin.

The plot. lt’s an action movie about
revenge. It doesn’t need much of a
plot. This was the impression that

Helgeland was under when he put to-
gether the script. Stevie Wonder could
have seen the ending coming, and Ray
Charles was there before him. The
story line was contrived, it was bor-
ing, it was anti-climatic. I have never
actually stood up at last minutes of a
movie and shouted, “Okay, end al-
ready!”

The action was rumored to be
“gruesome and violent.” It was pretty
nasty, but it was nothing to write home
about. I’ve seen more violence on
“Touched By An Angel.” Yeah, great,
they shoot a bunch of people and there
are a bunch of-explosions. Wow. Show
me something new, people!

And speaking of show me some-
thing, “Payback” uses that “teaser nu-
dity” that drives‘ me insane. A
dominatrix, a prostitute, and a drug
whore make up the entirety of the fe-
male characters, and the best they can
do are some mildly revealing clothing
and an ass shot. AN ASS SHOT! I
paid $7.50 to see an ass shot and a car
blow up? I could watch NYPD Blue
for free! And Sipowicz’s ass is much
nicer than this one.-

The acting. Well, at least they didn’t
try much. Mel Gibson was Mel Gibson.
He was mean, and omery, and cold-
blooded. I think he might have actu-
ally been asleep during the movie. Of
course, he was up against such dire

villains as Kris Kristofferson
(“Blade”) and James Coburn (“Mav-
erick”). I think they wanted Grandpa
Simpson, but he was hauling ass to
Lollapalooza, and Bob Dole was giv-
ing the presidential poll to Liddy.

You can have an old person as a
villain and make it successful, pro-
vided they have decent lines. Ifl
wanted to hear an old person say
“t"‘**” without much bravado, I’d hit
my grandfather in the hand with a
hammer.

Course, he’d kick my ass.

Oh, yeah, there were some other
people in the movie. I'd mention their
names, but I don’t really care. The
major villain was some Aryan-look-
ing douchebag with a propensity for
beating women and looking like Brian
Setzer. I didn’t care if they killed him
or not, just as long as they made him
stop saying “hubba hubba.”

The movie tried to come off as
hardcore and original. It failed. Mis-
erably. The action was bland at best
(I may be desensitized after”"Saving
Private Ryan” but it still was shit), they
didn’t bother to earn their R rating,
and the story was mediocre at best.
The only “Payback” you rooted for
was at the box ofﬁce.

Watch Movies For Guys Who Like

Moyies. This gangster movie should .

be put out of its misery.

Night Owl Music Co.

 

24 S‘. Jefferson Street
Lexington, VA 24450

Between The Palms

& Domino’s Pizza

464-4050

Open 10 a.m. - 9 p.m.
Monday - Friday

11 a.m. - 5 p.m.
Saturday

  . WE FIND IT FOR
BELOW LIST PRICE

“The biggest small guy in town who
can get you any music you want!”

Want to advertise in The Last Word?

Good for you!

on

stage and their family and friends con-
fronted them about their “Outrageous-
ness!”

Now, the British are not an outra-
geous people. The British are at least
forty years behind

TRISHA
Jolly good.

America has vastly superior talk
show technology because so many
Americans have

America in terms of
gross national outra-
geousness. Where
was the sass?
Where was the atti-
tude? Where were
the thrown chairs,
the ﬁst-fights, the
stream of bleeped

A’l'l‘llAlJ'll0NS

No trip to London is com-
plete withouta visit to these
tourist attractions. Be sure

to budget your time so you
don’t miss a thing!

their heads stuffed
with pop-psychol-
ogy “I’m proud of
who I am” crap. The
British are at least
mature enough for
self-loathing. They
understand that the
bedrock , of

out curse words? ﬁwesunineter Abbey civilisation is re-
Not on “Trisha.” ___The'l'0we,-ofLendon pression and un-
The show went __MickJagger’sdriginal happiness. We, on
something like this: lungs andillvel. . the other hand, are

‘ _D0llyw0od London always convinced

TRISHA’

—-—Wacky, fun-loving heroin

that we’re right and

Now, Diane, I un- addicts don’t have to listen
derstand you think ___-l-he Royal Accent to other people,
your friend Jenny is Reserves which is why our
outrageous. b___Glam sore from when we talk shows are not

kicked Britain’s ass in the 5° ”,‘,“°h“ “t‘_’lk
DIANE Revolullon shows as boxing

That’s right. She _geary, Sporty, posh and matches” (al-

dresses rather outra- the rest ofthe parliament though with

geously.

America’s rampant

TRISHA
I daresay, that sounds pretty out-
rageous. Let’s bring her out!

(Enter JENNY. She was dressed -
I swear I am not exaggerating —- in a
short skirt that would be considered
conservative even by W&L standards,
a normal blouse and jacket and maybe
a little too much make-up.)

TRISHA
So, Jenny, your friend thinks you
dress pretty outrageously. What do
you have to say about that?

JENNY
Well, perhaps I do dress a bit out-
rageously. I suppose I should tone it
down.

weight problem,
perhaps “sumo wrestling” is a better
description). ,

Besides politeness, the British have
other bizarre habits thatjust don’t make
sense to Americans. For example: read-
ing. And I’m not talking about just the
sports page and TV Guide like we read
—~ no, I’m talking books, actual books,
actual books with actual words and no
pictures. And they seemed to be read-
ing these for fun!

Every London street had two or
three bookstores, advertisements for
books ﬁlled London’s billboards and
the tubes (translation: subways) were
packed with Londoners immersed in
their lengthy tomes. I even saw one
European (translation: homosexual)
reading Schoenberg sheet music. I
mean, criminy, listening to Schoenberg
is pretentious enough, but reading it?

In the New York subway system, the
only thing people read are the dirty
words on each other’s tee-shirts.
Speaking of New York, however, I
will say that I did notice one big simi-
larity between these two great cities.
No matter what the accent, the non-
sensical ramblings of the crazy home-
less sound the same the world over. I
guess some things transcend culture.

T}

As the plane touched down in
Dulles, I thought back to this strange
[and 1 had just visited, this land of
weirdos with silly accents who respect
each other ‘s opinions and read for
pleasure. I looked up at the American
flag waving in the warm Virginia
breeze and realised just how lucky I
was to be in a land where people are
free to say and think what they please;
but where more often than not they
say what they please without think-

. THEATRE

The West End of*London
houses the most prominent the-
ater district in the world. It also
houses Soho, famous for its strip
clubs and naughty book stores.
Here’s a list of some of the clas-
sic plays you can be sure to catch .
in Soho this season.

~—A Midsummer Night’s Wet
Dream

——Romeo and Julislut

——As You Dyke it

——Anthony & Cleopatra & Bruce
& Steve & Mindy &...

—Hem'y the Fourth’s Parts, II

——King Long John

—~Tightass Androgynous

-—The Merry Whores of Windsor

Send me.
N amt:

vqu ‘KNEW TOvBE.“lTVRUE2} or B B
' _BUT wants “Ar-‘RAIQ TO ADMIT,

A Story Of Kegs, Dances, Paddlings,
And A Hell Night That Will Lead.Y0u TO

The.....

,TH'E: BOOK TI-l'Al‘I‘,,l1.fl‘Xi”.POSESl.\”t'li!’iH_ALl“l‘ if

ot)py(ics) of HELLMASTER

E}: BiIlI~t'\!alker

FRATERNITY 

Add rcss

$15 per book plus $2 shipping and handling.

Plcasc rnakr: checks payable to Bill B-:.n:~I-:3 and 313.2} m:

B3113:-c-ks
R0. Rm 844
Sull:va:1'3l3iar1d. SC '2'I~.‘«-I82!

ZIP

 

I
I

I!
I
‘I
I
I

