4

/4

 

U112

VOLUME 101, N0. 6

. Elrod toasts
,alcohol

by Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

Last week, to coincide with National
Alcohol Awareness Week as well as
Parents Weekend, Washington and
Lee University President John Elrod
sent out a letter to students’ parents
regarding campus alcohol abuse.

Citing the need for a partnership
between administrators, faculty, stu-
dents, trustees, parents and alumni,
Elrod acknowledged the existence of
“the serious health problem” of alco-
hol abuse at W&L.

Elrod’ s letter comes at a time when
a nationwide outcry for recognition of
binge drinking and alcohol abuse is
being made. With the goal of height-
ening awareness about the widespread
binge drinking that takes place on carn-
puses, National Collegiate Alcohol
Awareness Week kicked off last Mon-
day in Washington, D.C.

“We have to send the message that
drinking can be dangerous, underage
drinking is illegal, and letting it hap-
pen is wrong,” Health and Human Ser-
vices Secretary Donna Shalala said at
the kickoff.

A little closer to home, Elrod and
W&L are working toward the same ends.

I awareness

“Washington and Lee University
is not immune to this national colle-
giate health problem,” read part of
Elrod’s letter. “We are working hard to
understand the attitudes and habits
of our students regarding alcohol and
to ﬁnd the right response to this is-
sue. . . Much work has already been

done.”
Several student activities were also

designed to increase understanding of
alcohol and its potential conse-
quences in observance of National
Alcohol Awareness Week on the
W&L campus.

Students had the opportunity this
week to take Alcohol 101, which is an
interactive computer simulation game
of drinking that brings home some of
the possible side effects. Each player
attends a party, chooses how much to
drink and can experience the residual
effects and consequences of alcohol
use. The game took place in the Com-
merce School computer lab Monday
through Wednesday and in the GHQ
on Thursday.

Students also coordinated a media
campaign and distributed posters, book-
marks and tabletents across campus.

See ALCOHOL, Page 2

‘Social deviants
travel to Europe

by Tarah Grant

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

This spring term, ten students will
leave Lexington three weeks before ﬁ-
nals and not finish their academic term
until almost two weeks after gradua-
tion. These students will not be act-
ing with deviancy; rather, they will be
studying deviancy~—in Europe.

Sociology Professor David Novack
will teach a six—credit course this spring
term titled Deviance in Cross Cultural
Perspective: Being Jewish in Central
Europe. When most students get ready
to register for winter term, those who
are interested in NoVa_pk’s Sociology
406 will need to start thinking about
spring term now. Novack will hold an
informational meeting and slide show
7 p.m. Wednesday in Newcomb 28B.

Students in Sociology 406 will ex-
amine the Jewish life in Central Europe
from World War II to the present. From
April 19 to May 7 on campus, students
will study deviance theory, with read-
ings focusing on Jewish history. On
May 12, they will depart for Central
Europe. “Students will study the ex-
perience where it took place,” Novack
said. “It’s also an opportunity to go
places where you wouldn’t normally

go?’

Students will spend 12 days tour-
ing and sightseeing in Central Europe,
going to Vienna, Prague, Budapest,

Belgrade and Krakow. They will listen

to guest lectures by specialists on Jew-
ish life and visit relevant historic sites
including synagogues, Jewish cem-
eteries and Auschwitz.

Novack, who has never been to
Auschwitz, said he is still a little un-
comfortable when he thinks about
visiting the grounds of the Nazis’
infamous death camp. “lt’s not go-
ing to be a pleasant experience, but
it will be a meaningful one,” Novack
said. “It’s evidence ofthe dark side
of humanity.”

From May 25 to June 13, students
will attend class sessions at the Ameri-
can University in Bulgaria (AUBG).
AUBG, which receives roughly 50 per-
cent of its funding from the United
States government, is housed in the
buildings of the former communist
headquarters. Because Bulgaria was
the only Nazi ally during WWII
where the country’s king refused to
turn over its Jewish citizens to the
Nazi regime, Novack said AUBG is
an appropriate setting for the ﬁnal
portion of the course.

At AUBG, W&L students will share
their classroom with students from
AUBG and Mary Baldwin College.
“Class sessions will focus on a com-
parative analysis of the normality and
stigma of being Jewish in Central Eu-
rope,” Novack said.

The program is unusual in that it

See EUROPE, Page 2

Sociology 406 is only oneof the

term.

Politics professors Lewis John
and William Connelly will teach a
course called “British Politics in
London.” In additional to studying
the fundamentals of the British gov-

, ernment, students will compare the
British and American political sys-
tems. The first four weeks of the
class will be taught in London, and

Other ways  ﬂee Lex

Washington and Lee courses that .
will be taught abroad this spring‘

the last two will be heldin Lexing- I
ton. Applications are available from I

the professors and are due on Nov.
12.
Two art courses will betaught.
in Italy. Professor Kathleen Olson-

Janjic will teach an art history and

studio course titled Drawing Italy.

High Renaissance in Florence and

Rome, an art history course, will

be taught by Assistant Professor

George Bent. Both classes will

spend the first two weeks of spring

term on campus and the last four
abroad. » . ‘ ‘ I

See ABROAD, Page 2

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNivERsmI’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

Tiling-tum {ﬂirt

MONDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1998

      

eneralswin in

The ecstatic Generals celebrate their victory following the successful 42-yard ﬁeld goal by freshman Brad Wiginton in the
ﬁnal seconds of Saturday’s game. Though only their second win of the season, the Generals played intensely to overcome
an early 14-point deﬁcit and claim a 23-21 victory in front of the Parents’ Weekend crowd.

inal seconds

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

Bicenquinquagenary Ball gets rolling

by Tarah Grant

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

Students and faculty received in-
vitations this week to the
Bicenquinquagenary Ball. However,
with no posters on campus and no ad-
vertisements in the newspapers, few
know anything about the ball.

Co-chair of the 250‘*‘ Ball Commit-
tee Erin McGrain says the clandestine-
ness is intentional. The committee
wants everyone to be surprised when
they enter the Warner Center on Nov.
14. The evening will be “simple, el-
egant, and classy,” McGrain said.

“The ball is basically the largest
student-component of the 250"‘ cel-
ebration,” Mandy Stallard, the other
co-chair of the ball committee, said. “It

is something that every member of the
W&L community can attend to feel the
spirit and excitement of this momen-
tous occasion.”

The 250"‘ Ball weekend will start on
Friday, Nov. 13 with a Widespread
Panic concert in the Student Pavilion.

On Saturday, the 250"‘ Ball will
transform Doremus Gymnasium into a
three dimensional yearbook. Ball at-
tendees will dance and mingle among
images from the university’s past. Pro-
jectors will display images from “Come
Cheer for Washington and Lee,” the
250"‘ celebration book, on two large
screens in Doremus, and enlarged
photographs from the book will deco-
rate the hallways of the Warner Center.

Student Co-Chair of the 250'“ Com-
mittee Nate Tencza said they modeled

the ball after the Mock Con Gala, but
they are trying to make it “just a bit
classier.”

The Students Activities Board and
the 250"‘ Ball Committee selected a
band called The Chairmen of the Board
to entertain ball attendees. McGrain
describes the band’s music as a mix
between swing and shag. “It’s like
beach music but a little more jazzy,”
she said.

The Chairmen of the Board has
toured internationally, with concerts
in such places as London’s Hammer-
Smith Odeon Theater and New York
City’s Apollo Theater. The band has
also appeared on Dick Clark’ s “Ameri-
can Bandstand,” Johnny Carson’s
“Tonite Show,” Don Comelious’ “Soul
Train,” and have shared the stage with

such legends as BB King, Jackie Wil-
son, The Isley Brothers, Earth Wind
& Fire, The Four Tops, Nancy Wilson
and the Spinners.

According to Neil Penick, director
of the 250“‘ observance, the commit-
tee chose to hold the ball only in the
small gym and keep the decorations
simple because they did not want it to
compete with the annual Fancy Dress
Ball. “The 250*‘ Ball will be intention-
ally not as extravagant as FD,” said
Penick.

The tentative ticket price will also be
less extravagant than FD: $30 for a
single ticket, $45 for a couple. The memo-
rabilia package includes two champagne
ﬁutes and two t-shirts, Stallard said. Tick-
ets for the ball will go on sale Nov. 9 in
the University Center.

Poetic justice rocks Diamond Street

by Lora Ellison

STAFF WRITER

Had you been strolling down Dia-
mond Street last Tuesday night, your
eye might have been caught by a mul-
titude of ﬂickering candles coming
from #1 l3.

Upon a closer look, you would
have seen about 30 students gathered
on couches, beanbags and the ﬂoor,
all listening intently to various stu-
dents pour forth their souls through
their own poetry.

Sophomore Susan Slim resounded
bitingly, “You’rejust not the marrying
type, he tells me, his ﬁtted navy blue
baseball cap tucked behind his ears

. . You’re an eyebrow piercing, I
don’t give a f"‘*k kind of girl. He
does not know me.” One after an-
other, people took turns at the mic,
alternating between poems and
songs, inducing both tears and stom-
ach gripping laughter. ‘

No, you haven’t been teleported to
Oberlin or one of those strange hippie
schools. You’re still at W&L, conser-
vative focal point of the college uni-
verse; but on Tuesday, Oct. 20, the So-
ciety for the Arts made a breakthrough
and held this year’s first open mic night
for poetry, ﬁction and music.

JAMES C‘. LEYr>',_;7>.,i ,
w'As.a.i:u<=r7om  Li L“

 
 

n .

Senior Whit Morris opened the
evening with a sultry reading of
“Smoove B” from the Internet, which
was later compared to the dialog of
the chef from Comedy Central’s “South
Park.” This casual beginning, along
with a supportive group of people,
made this the perfect environment for
untucking your shirt, relaxing and shar-
ing a little bit of creativity. The vari-
ous breaks also allowed the students
to get to know the people to whom
they’d been listening.

Most of the attending students
shared an overwhelming excitement at
the success of the gathering. “I’ve
been waiting for something like this
since I started going to school here,”
junior Jessica Helm said. “There are
some very interesting people here, and
they ﬁnally have a place to gather to-
gether.”

The Society for the Arts has been
dwindling over the last few years, but
students such as juniors Childs
Cantey, Ashley Marano and Caroline
Cobb are working hard to build it back
up again.

“We want to promote the diverse
talents of the students on campus,”
Cobb said.

In the future, they plan to hold

See ARTS, Page 2

 

During
Society for
the Arts’
Open Mic

_ Night, sopho-
1 more Chris-
' tine Metzger
reads an
untitled poem
she com-
posed her-

self.

Photo by Hollister
Hovey/Iixecutixe
Editor

Ellie ﬂing-tum lﬁhi
October 26, 1998
OPINION:

W&LIEE:

SPORTS:

Talk Back and a pair of angry letters from Virginia
Tech and cross country team

Husband and wives on campus, Lexington’s best love
locales and the Elrod’s love story

Football comes from behind, women’s soccer claims
ODACs, men’s soccer breaks win record PAGE 7

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

 

. .e..._-.a.-...x...-._...ii...».-....

 

PAGE2

N

61112 iﬁtng-tum iﬂlii

EWS

OCTOBER 26, 1998

Sophomores charged with
stealing, destroying Phis

by Heather McDonald

NEWS WRITER

Commonwealth Attorney Gordon
Saunders charged two former Wash-
ington and Lee women with grand lar-
ceny last week in connection with the
theft of 1,500 copies of The Ring-tum
Phi.

Ellen Elliott and Stephanie Fortener,
both 19, are each charged with unau-
thorized use of a vehicle and grand
larceny, both felonies. Elliott is also
charged with driving under the inﬂu-
ence and refusal to take a Breathalyzer
test.

The charges of unauthorized use
of a vehicle are for taking two cars
from Goad’s Body Shop on Route 1 1,

and using them to drive back to cam-
pus.

The charges of grand larceny re-
sult from the theft of approximately
1,500 copies of the Oct. 12 issue of
The Ring-tum Phi.

The two charges are separate felo-
nies in separate jurisdictions. The
charge of unauthorized use of a ve-
hicle occurred in Rockbridge County,
outside the City of Lexington jurisdic-
tion. The charge of grand larceny oc-
curred within the City of Lexington.

“The Commonwealth Attorney will
prosecute the theft of the paper him-
self. Our responsibility basically at
this point is only that of witness,”
Chief of Security Mike Young said
about W&L’s role in the trial.

Elliott and Fortener cannot be
brought up before the Executive Com-
mittee for honor violations because
they withdrew from the University
prior to the Phi theft.

The plaintiff in the grand larceny
case is Washington and Lee Univer-
sity; the case will be fought on behalf
of the student‘ body‘ because the Phi
is the property of the student body.
Approximately one-third of the Phi’s
budget is provided through student
activity fees, a mandatory fee each
student pays at the beginning of the
school year.

The Student Body Constitution
states that: “The Activities Fee shall
entitle the payer to yearly subscrip-
tions to The Ring-tum Phi. . .” The
EC allocates an amount each year to
the Phi to provide an issue of the Phi
for each member of the student body
without an additional subscription or
extra cost.

The Phi also had an obligation to
its advertisers to make sure that the
paper was properly distributed so they
had to have the stolen copies re-
printed. The Phi editorial board de-
cided that it needed to bring this inci-
dent to the attention of the Common-
wealth Attorney.

“We want students to know that
we aren’t just playing journalists,”
Phi Executive Editor Tarah Grant said.
“We put a lot of time into each issue
and we take our work seriously. You
can’t just throw away an entire week’s
issues because you don’t like a story,
and then have your daddy send us a

check.”

Grant would like the court to order
that the women do some community
service hours in addition to working
to pay for the reprints themselves.

Many students were at first con-
fused as to why the Phi wasn’t dis-
tributed Oct. 12, and then were an-
gered.

“The students I talked to seemed
fairly upset about it,” Young said.

Sophomore Georgie Hickam, a jour-
nalism student, heard about the inci-
dent and e-mailed the Phi on the
evening the papers were stolen. She
asked that the editors consider repub-
lishing the edition in order for the
story to be printed.

“I couldn’t believe these two girls
were stupid enough to steal a car in

the first place,” Hickam said. “And
then they thought by threatening,

they could prevent the press from
printing a story.”

In order to get the story out, Jour-
nalism Professor John Jennings took
matters into his own hands. He
printed copies of the front page by
cutting individual stories and reduc-
ing them on a copier machine, then re-
pasting them to a new sheet to form a
mini-edition of the Phi. He then
passed out the mini-edition to his
classes Tuesday morning.

The Richmond Times-Dispatch
and The Roanoke Times published
stories about the incident last Friday
and Saturday, respectively.
Newscharmel 10 in Roanoke also cov-
ered the story during a break of
F riday’s “Today Show.”

The initial incident took place
Wednesday, Oct. 1 . Elliott and Fortener
went to Berky’s Restaurant with
friends after a party. They decided to
leave, and began walking home.
Around 3:50 a.m. Deputy Rob Tackett

' ﬁiund Elliott passed out behind’ the

wheel of a Nissan Pathﬁnder in the
southbound lane of Route 1 1. Tackett
requested that Elliott take a
Breathalyzer test, but she refused.
Tackett then charged her with driving
under the inﬂuence and refusal to take
a Breathalyzer.

Thursday morning Goad’s Body
Shop, which is across the street from
Berky’s restaurant, reported two cars
missing to the police. Elliott, who was
already in custody, confessed that she
and Fortener had taken the vehicles.
Later that day, Fortener went to the
Lexington Sheriff’ s office voluntarily
and confessed.

Phi Executive Editor Holllster
Hovey and News Editor Polly Doig
checked the police docket on Sun-
day, Oct. 11. After speaking to Of-
ficer Tackett, Hovey and Doig at-
tempted to contact both Elliott and
Fortener for an article about the car
theft, which was to be published in
that Monday’s edition of the Phi.

Despite repeated messages left
with roommates and on voicemail,
Elliott and Fortener never returned
phone calls.

The Phi staff ﬁnished the newspa-
per at 3 a.m. The article, “Two stu-

§|lI'illﬂ Break '99

Sell trills. earn cash.
S18 is now hiring camnus

IIIWBSI rates I0 Jamaica,
Mﬂlliﬁﬂ 8. Florida

1-888-848-4849 or
www.ststraveI.com

..J/~‘\i\,'ii':IS C7». l.EYB'..${3li\5 .
V‘/ASHli\!GTON E’ ' '
I r- ll /"'!‘f\1l"\ vi -
L.LAiiw..i um, V 1  

dents charged with vehicle theft,”
was the week’s top story.

At about 3:30 a.m. Monday, Hovey
received a threatening call at home.
The caller did not identify herself.

Monday afternoon, The News-Ga-
zette delivered 2,000 copies of the Phi
to the University Center for distribu-
tion.

When Grant, Hovey and Doig ar-
rived in the University Center around
4 p.m. to distribute the newspaper,
approximately 1,500 copies of the pa-
per were missing. Hovey and Doig
headed toward Gaines to ﬁnd Elliott
and Fortener.

When Hovey asked for the miss-
ing papers, Elliott responded that the
paper is free, and there was no rea-
son why they couldn’t take home
multiple copies.

Hovey told the women that they
could return the papers or pay for the
cost of the reprint. Elliott returned
approximately 50 copies she had in
her backpack.

Despite rumors that more than one
person was involved, Young denies
that Elliott and Fortener were aided
by others.

“[Elliott and Fortener] did not in-
dicate that anyone else had helped
them [with the newspaper theft],”
Young said. “It seemed to stand to
reason that they’d been accused of
stealing the cars, and the headline in
the paper was involving that story.
They looked like the only suspects
we had.”

After the initial confrontation with
Elliott and Fortener, Hovey left a mes-
sage with Young, and Doig spoke
with Dean of Students David
Howison, who both promised action.
Monday evening, Young and W&L
security conducted a search for the
missing newspapers.

Tuesday morning, Young found a
car illegally parked with 25 copies of
the Phi in it. Young towed the car and
demanded that it not be released un-
til the owners were questioned.

“We impounded the car,” said
Young. “It was improperly parked. It
had the evidence of possible theft.”

Elliot and Fortener told Young that
they had dumped the newspapers in
the dumpster behind Frank’s Restau-
rant. Young subsequently drove them
to the dumpster to retrieve the cop-
ies, but the trash had already been
picked-up.

In the meantime, the Phi decided
to reprint an additional 1,000 copies
of the Monday edition, an additional
cost of $360. The reprints were dis-
tributed Tuesday afternoon.

“The administration has always
believed, at least in the eight years
since I’ve been here, if our students
commit a crime, then they should be
held responsible,” Young said. “They
have a responsibility to the commu-
nity of Washington and Lee and to
the community of Lexington and
Rockbridge County as a whole. The
administration, while we ﬁnd it un-
fortunate incident, doesn’t want to
hinder any prosecutions.”

ALCOHOL

continued from page 1

In addition, the annual Controlled Drinking Experiment
was held Thursday evening in the GHQ Bistro.

According to director of W&L health services Dr. Jane
Horton, the goals of the controlled drinking experiment are
simple. “Participants drink in a controlled setting,” said
Horton. “We do ﬁeld sobriety tests, measuring their blood
alcohol content (BAC), and responses to alcohol over time,
and show differences in how quickly someone’s BAC rises
depending on gender, body weight, eating, etc.”

The results were posted and discussed throughout
the event, and entertainment was also provided. Ac-
cording to Horton, participants were teamed with a non-
drinking partner, at least 21 years old, weren’t allowed
to continue drinking once their BAC reaches .12 (the
level where dysphoria and major motor skill impairment
can begin), and were allowed to stop drinking at any
time they felt they should.

A “pour a drink” contest was also held, in order to
“demonstrate that mixed drinks often have more alcohol
that one standard drink,” Horton said.

Awareness seems to be increasing on many levels of
campus life. This year, two W&L freshman halls are com-
pletely substance-free. This means that there is no alco-
hol, cigarette or drug use within any of the rooms on the

ARTS

continued from page 1

events such as art exhibitions, group performances, swing
dance lessons, photography classes and more poetry
readings, most of which will take place at the “Ruse,”
the new coffee house that will soon be opening on
Nelson Street.

“We also want to bring in regional speakers and

EUROPE

continued from page 1

ends June 15, weeks aﬂer Washington and Lee University’s
academic year ends. According to Novack, this is due to
the fact that the program directors had to blend three dif-
ferent academic calendars—W&L’s, Mary Baldwin’s and
AUBG’s. W&L administrators decided to allow this un-
usual situation because it is a one-time program and they
felt that it was a unique and important opportunity for its
students, according to Novack.

Novack got the idea for the program from his wife, who
teaches at Mary Baldwin College. She taught a course in
Europe on the psychology of women three years ago and
related to her husband what a wonderful experience it was
to teach students of incredibly different backgrounds in
‘the same classroom.

Novack also admired the relationships his wife was able
to develop with students when they lived, ate and traveled
together. “There’s a sense of closeness you can’t other-
wise get,” Novack said.

ABROAD

continued from page 1

Geology Professor Ed Spencer, Philosophy Professor
Harrison Pemberton and Classics Professor Herman Tay-
lor will teach an interdepartmental course in Greece. Stu-
dents will be required to take a class called Cultural His-
tory and Natural Philosophy of Greece and then select one
of the following three classes: Greek Art and Architecture,
Plato or Regional Geology of Greece and the Greek Islands.
The ﬁrst two weeks of the program will be spent in Lexing-
ton and the last four in Greece.

Three foreign language courses will be taught abroad
for the entire six weeks of Spring Term. A French pro-
fessor, yet to be determined, will lead a supervised study
program in Paris, France. Assistant Professors Francoise
Fregnac—Clave and Ellen Mayock will teach in Madrid,
Spain. Professor Roger Crockett will bring students to
Germany. The study abroad program in Moscow, Rus-
sia, which would have been lead by Assistant Profes-

halls. The idea was so popular when it was offered, that
more people signed up than there was room for.

College binge drinking ﬁrst came to the national fore-
front as an issue in 1993, when Harvard University released
a survey citing shockingly high numbers of binge drink-
ers. Using a standard definition of ﬁve or more drinks in a
night, Harvard found that percentages were particularly
high (more than 80 percent) among members of Greek or-
ganizations.

Since then, national awareness has further been raised
by the high—proﬁle deaths of several college students.
Harvard recently came out with another survey in Septem-
ber, reporting that binge drinking levels had increased in
the four years since their last study.

And just last week, University of Michigan freshman
Courtney Cantor died in a fall from her sixth-ﬂoor dorm room
window after attending a fraternity party.

Although the investigation is ongoing, ofﬁcials said al-
cohol was involved. _

An estimated 50 college students die annually because
of binge drinking, while hundreds of others suffer alcohol
poisonings.

“We as a community are responsible for actions on our
campuses,” Shalala said.

troupes,” Cobb added, “and we hope to make trips to local
shows and events as well.”

The next meeting for The Society for the Arts will be
this Thursday at 7:00 p.m. in duPont Auditorium.

For more information, you can also visit their web site
at www.wlu.edu/~sfa.

So Novack began thinking of developing a course for
Washington and Lee students that would combine some
of his interests and be an exciting and meaningful topic for
students to explore. The result is his Sociology 406, Devi-
ance in Cross Cultural Perspective: Being Jewish in Cen-
tral Europe.

The $1,950 program cost, which Novack notes is lower
than other spring term study abroad courses, includes
round-trip airfare from New York to Vienna, with the option
to stay in Europe at no additional charge; accommodation
and food with full board in Bulgaria and on a bed-and-
breakfast basis elsewhere; tuition and use of all facilities at
AUl3C§,,including access to e-mail; city tours and museum
fees; and comprehensive insurance coverage.

“It’s a fabulous opportunity for cultural exposure at a
price that is affordable,” Novack said.

For more information, contact Novack at 463-8792. A
non-refundable deposit of $250 is due by Nov. 30.

sor Anna Brodsky, was canceled this week because of
political and economic unrest in the country.

According to Kirk Follo, Instructor of Gemian, there are
more opportunities for students to study abroad this year
than ever before. The administration recently hired two
full time international education specialists, making it clear
to the faculty that the University is interested in support-
ing education abroad, Follo said.

Follo encourages students who are interested in going
abroad this year with a Washington and Lee spring term
course to contact the relevant professor immediately.

“It’s what spring term is supposed to be for-doing
unusual kinds of things,” Follo said.

Limited ﬁnancial aid is available, but the forms must be
completed by Nov. 2.

According to Follo, Sociology 406 is the only course
for which the price has been set.

  
 

n t e
s4o.4o.nn

e Parents Discount e
e Newly Renovated e
e Free HBO w/ Remote e
 No Smoking Room is
e Free Continental Breakfast

 

SHEAR TIMING
HAIR SALON

Mondays-Haircuts $2.00 Off
When You Mention This Ad  

Wtmims ippto

4154:1145

 “Please realize

Ithat the first
duty of
newspaperimen
is to get the
news and PRINT
THE NEWS . "

-William Randolph Hearst,
quoted in “Editor & Publisher,"
August 12, 1944

U1]: King-tum flit welcomes story ideas and
Letters to the Editor submissions. Write to
phi@wlu.edu or come to our weekly editorial board
meetings 7 pm. Tuesdays.

0€i'271oqg

»-

 

 
 

.............OP1N1oN-E

Glitz itling-tum lﬂlit

DITORIAL

PAGE 3

STAFF EDITORIAL

School spirits win at W&L

Maybe the fantastic 4th quar-
ter of this Saturday’s football
game will do for Washington and
Lee athletics what Sammy Sosa
and Mark McGwire have done
for baseball.

Well, probably not, because no
one was there. By the time the
winning field goal was kicked, ev-
eryone had already gone to sleep
off their tailgate hangovers.

But who would you expect to
stay? They don’t allow alcohol in
the stands of Wilson Field.

No matter how hard our ath-
letes try, barely anyone on this
campus seems to give a damn
about supporting them —— unless
spirits are involved.

The showing at football games
is decent, but only until halftime,
when the tailgate buzz wears off.
And while they’re there, the
crowds are less enthusiastic than
the onlookers at a chess match.

It’s really sad when most of our

high schools were juggernauts of
school spirit. Stadiums filled to the
brim for basketball games, with
bands, cheerleaders and heckling
fans. Football fans might have

(C

We hear so many
people say how much
they love W&L, but
they don’t really love
the place — they love
the parties.

77

been kind of tipsy, but at least they
cared about the game and used
their roudiness for some good
badgering.

We hear so many people say
how much they love W&L, but
they really don’t love the place —
they love the parties.

If they really cared about what

W&L was about, they would try
to make every aspect of this
school great, including the turnout
at sporting events.

We may be smart, but we’re
doing nothing to help our cause
any by showing such pathetic,
shallow support of our school. If
we had any real pride in what this
university really should stand for,
it would be a better place.

Really, if we had more spirit,

we would have more fun. We love .

the parties because so many of us
have passion for alcohol. Sport-
ing events could be just as fun if
we had a fraction of the same pas-
sion, and showed it.

Don’ttell us that they just aren’t
entertaining. We know you love
sports, you just don’t seem to like
them when your friends and
collegues are playing.

Try to stop letting your spirits
overshadow the spirit that should
matter.

Z;/if/I
a 
M

Letters to The Ring-tum Phi 

Dear Phi,

I recently accessed your article about two students
charged with vechicle theft via the intemet. I have vis-
ited Washington and Lee fucntions numerous times and
ﬁnd it a shame that such an article would be published.

I attend Virginia Tech and while students may be
arrested there has never been such an embarrassing
article, like yours, published in our school newspaper.
At Tech many fraternity members have recently been

‘ ‘charged with embarrassing subject matter. *Whilé‘the
public news has made: this i_ss_ue jftgery public" our
school has been very sympathetic to the issue.

I thought Washington and Lee was founded on
honor and pride. When I attended homecoming and
"FD" everyone was very friendly. I would never have

such a lack of respect.

This article proves that the secluded, little school
in the town of Lexington is nothing but a snobby,
backstabbing, selfish waste. is everyone there so wor-
ried about being the best that they would publish such
an article just to make themselves feel better? Yes, this

Cross country captain claims
unfair coverage in Phi

Dear Phi Editors,

It concerns me that you have yet to print anything
this year about the cross country teams. Although it
must have slipped your notice, Washington and Lee has
a men’s and a women’s cross country team, both of which
are nearing the ends of their seasons. Our state meet,
where the women’s team placed third, was two week-
ends ago. The Ring-tum Phi did not so much as mention
it, despite the fact that sophomore Wendy Case placed
sixth in the state individually. I find it bizarre that aschool

, cated athletes on this team devoted much time and effort
to their sport, and they deserve (even a little) recognition
for their well-earned accomplishments. Three meets re-
main in our season: the Gettysburg Invitational, ODACS
and the Regional Meet. I hope you will use these three
final opportunities to report on a successful team and to
give my teammates the recognition they deserve.

Sincerely,
Ashley Smith
Co-Captain, Women’s XC Team

suspected that you would treat fellow students with

newspaper did not include this success story. The dedi- /

Virginia Tech student disagrees with printing of Phi article

is the media, but I would hope that there are better
things going on in Lexington so you could have spared
these girls such embarrassment. ’ I
I'm sorry, but you all really need to think before you .

publish such life-darnaging rubish. I will think twice
before visiting your intitution again; I'd rather visitjail.

I could not imagine being those two girls, let alone
being you knowing that I helped to ruin their lives.

Sincerly,

P.S. Do you not think these. girls are not sorry for
what they did? How do you think their family feels?
What would your family do? Have you ever made a
mistake? Are you perfect? -

Everyone has messed up . . . maybe to a lesser de-
gree, but that is regardless of the point. Have a good
day and thank you for your time. I look forward to read-
ing your paper, and hope that next time it will spread
happy news, instead of destroying news.

American Cancer Society ,
thanks W&L students

Dear Editors,

On behalf of the Rockbridge Community Unit of
the American Cancer Society, I wish to express my’
thanks for the 100 studentsiwho participatedin the
tenth annual Making Strides Against Cancer walk-a-
long. We collected over $1200, and over 30 prizes
from local merchants were given away; In addition, r
Erin Kraal’s hall won the “Sweet Taste of Victory Con-
test,” earning a free lunch with Dean Dalhouse at
Wilson Walker. Chi Omega edged out PIKA for the
$100 IFC Award, which they donated to the ACS.»
PIKA, for the fourth year in a row, won the free piz-
zas courtesy of Frank’s Pizza. Susan Srnith’s puppy,
Annabelle, was the overwhelming winner of the F a-.
vorite Dog Contest, garnering over 55 votes of the L
225 votes cast in the week prior to last‘LSunday’s/_
event. ' P . I be

Thanks to all who contributed to the efforts to
wipe out cancer in our lifetime, especially the meme 4 ;
bers of Chi Omega and the Catholic Campus Minis- ‘

try, co-sponsors of the event. ' I A

Sincerely, ,
W.C. “Burr” Datz ’75

'K.

N.

TALK? j;:.

1’ 
Q 1,}. ., ,

 

“Holding back the throngs of fans trying to tear
down the goalposts.”

—Andy Simmons ‘O1

Parents boogie down with the kiddies

Why was Lexington infested with some of the world’s
most giddy, excited people this past weekend? I looked
around and saw these few thousand smiling parents, and I
wondered what could Washington and Lee’s Parents Week-
end possibly do to put these parents in such a marvelous
mood. lcame up with a few different rea-
sons why our parents might love this
place so much.

Looking at my father, I might assume
that everyone’s parents are weather
fans. But I guess cool, crisp weather
does not ﬂoat everyone’s pirogue like it
does a man’s from the sweltering Big Easy. So while gor-
geous weather might have inﬂuenced the happy moods of
our parents this weekend, I think a more profound reason
effected the general good nature.

Now, some of the parents may have decided to let the

spirits move them
6 C

3..

day. Remember-

. . . my mother would ing that Weekend

. . SCIIIOF year In

have given me an atomic high Scho 01 when
wedgie followed by a their little darling
swift kick to the back- depleied the

_ ‘ stock in the fam-
side that would knock uy nquorcabinet,

maw and paw
may have de-
cided that this
weekend was

you into last week’ (one
of her favorite lines).
payback time.

7 7

While I admit
maybe a few parents may have enjoyed a bit too much
company from Jack and Jose, I think something else may

have caused those goofy grins.
Quite possibly, our parents see our college culture as
something totally bizarre and inconsistent with their own
lifestyles, and, therefore, they appreciate the fact that they

{I



,.

I E

"*7" :

/‘e
uote of the week:

I was so mad when my

daughter graduated because
that meant no more Parents’
Weekend. All y’all are going

to do is party.

— Anonymous mother of alumnae preparing a
freshman for the excitement of last weekend

}}

Where were you when W&L

  

“I was at the soccer game because the
football team was losing.”

-—Allison McQueen ’02

kicked the winning ﬁeld goal?

  

“Being one of the throngs of people
trying to tear down the goalposts.”

——Nick Cirnino ’0l

 Off His Rocker
  Stephen Pesce ’01

through till I Sun-.

no longer have to put up with us. If my room at home had
looked (or smelled) in any way similar to my room here at
school, my mother would have given me an atomic wedgie
followed by a swift kick to the backside that would “knock
you into last week” (one of her favorite lines). This week-
end, however, she laughed and rolled
her eyes. She didn’t pull my underwear
over my head and I ’m still progressing
on the tirneline.

Saturday evening, however, I realized
why these people looked like they had
been breathing helium since September.
I can’t really explain it, but maybe an example will shed
some light on the matter. As I looked across a hot, loud
fraternity basement, I saw parents enjoying themselves
just as much as their children. What struck me most were
the faces of these parents. Daddies, no speciﬁc names,
let’s just call them all Bob, busted a move with their little
girls, grinning from ear to car. At that moment they wanted

‘ to be on that sweaty floor more than anywhere else (and I

promise it was not to show off their dynamic dance moves).

The bottom line is that they like us, they really like us.
We don’t understand why they get so excited about any
little thing that we do and blow it all out of proportion.
When I was nine, I had a hamster, Pee-Wee. If I put him in
the bottom drawer of my chest, he would “magically” peek
his little head out the top drawer 30 seconds later. I called
all my friends over and showed them. They were not quite
so amused, but I was still proud.

I think all of us blessed enough to have our parents
visit this weekend need to let them know how much we
appreciated their Visit.

@112 ilttug-tum ilﬂlii

Tarah Grant
Hollister Hovey
Polly Doig

John Stewart
Ginger Phillips
Erica Prosser
Stephanie Bianco
Stephen Pesce
Frances Groberg
Brendan Harrington
Kevin McManemin
Sarah Meldrum
Meredith Mlynar
Emily Barnes
Mike Crittcnden
Christie Phillips
Tom Wadlow

Executive Editors

News Editors

W&Life Editors

Opinion & Editorial Editors
Sports Editors

Last Word Editor
Copy Editors

Photo Editors

Online Editor

Business Manager
Advertising Directors

Jason Williams
John Costello
Matt Lorber

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor and Business Manager, but
The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “Talkback” do not
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Ofﬁce: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wlu.edu/-phi
Annual subsription rate: $30

 

 

PAGE 4

  W&

@112 itting-tum iﬂlii

IFE

OCTOBER 26, 1998

You may now kiss the student

Some Washington and Lee students vow to love, honor each other ‘til death do th eypart

by Ginger Phillips

F EA TURES EDITOR

You might not realize it, but en-
gaged and married couples are here
on the Washington and Lee Univer-
sity campus. They are not just faculty
members, however, because some W&L
students are going to the chapel and
they’re gonna get married. Others have
already made the trip down the aisle.

Some might say that these stu— —

dents are the unlucky ones. Why
would any college student want to
be tied down to only one person dur-
ing a time in life when he or she
should be having as much fun and
dating as many people as possible?

Most engaged and married stu-
dents, however, believe that they are
actually the lucky ones. They are
happy that they have found their true
loves early in life.

“I knew I had found the right girl,

_ and it felt like the right time to pro-

pose,” senior Seth Kellerrnan, who is
married to Hollins University senior

Tara Ferguson, said.

“Being married is great, and I’m ac-
tually enjoying life a lot more now than
I have in previous years,” he said. “I
am very content and happy with my
situation.”

Kellerman and Ferguson met at their
high school and have been dating since
their junior year. When they chose to
attend different colleges, they had to
commute between Lexington and
Roanoke to see each other.

“It took a good amount ofdriving to
be able to see her all the time,” said
Kellerrnan, “but it was worth it.”

Kellerrnan wanted a romantic setting
for his proposal, so he popped the big
question on top of a mountain in Cali-
fornia. The couple married on August
8 ofthis year and now live in Roanoke.

Junior Holly Estes and senior Cliff
Woolley met two years ago when both
were taking a class in the W&L theater
department.

“We knew early on that we would
be together forever,” Estes said. “It
was inevitable that we would get en-

gaged, and then itjust happened last
year on our one year anniversary.”

One of the most obvious advan-
tages to being engaged or married is
not having to search for dates to all
the W&L date functions each year.

Estes believes that this advantage,
however, is actually quite small com-
pared to the other benefits that ac-
company engagement.

“The least ofit is not always hav-
ing to struggle to find dates,” she
said. “It is so much more than that,
like always having someone you
can count on to be there for you
when you need them.”

Despite the presence of engaged
and married students at W&L, the
majority of the student body is single.
This deﬁnitely makes couples like these
unique, but they don’t seem to feel
uncomfortable being in the minority.

“It’s only strange when my girl-
friends are looking for dates for func-
tions because I don’t feel that need
anymore,” Estes said. “I remember
what that was like though. I also don’t

know that many undergraduate guys
anymore because I don’t feel that pres-
sure to go to the frat houses and meet
guys anymore.”

These couples also have different,
ifnot more, responsiblities than single
students because they must always
consider their partner’s needs.

“I no longer plan just for myself,”
Kellennan said. ‘‘I have to think for my
wife as well and about what’s best for
the both of us.”

Engagement and marriage have also
impacted these students’ plans for life
after graduation.

‘‘I am going to go to grad school
after I leave W&L, and I know that
wherever I go, my ﬁance will come with
me,” Estes said. “We want to get mar-
ried before I go so that we will already
be settled.”

One thing that is for sure, these stu-
dents are extremely satisﬁed with their lives,
and they hope that other students will one
day ﬁnd the same happiness in love.

“lt’s great,” said Kellerrnan. “ I encour-
age everyone to go for it eventually!”

Campus husbands,

by Eliarma Marziani
STAFF WRITER

True romance: moonlight walks, stargazing, candlelight dinners, soft mu-
sic, roses  and lunch at the Co-op?

Romance comes in many forms, as Tyler and Beverly Lorig and other Wash-
ington and Lee University staff and faculty husband-and—wife couples have
discovered.

Tyler Lorig is a professor of psychology. Beverly Lorig is the director of

A Career Development and Placement. After more than 20 years of marriage
‘ and nine years of working together at W&L, they have learned to appreci-
1 ate everyday romance, looking on something as simple as lunch together

Photo courtesy of Cliff Woolley
Senior Cliff Woolley and junior Holly Estes have been dating
for the past two years and plan to get married before she enters
graduate school. They are happy to have found true love at W&L.

Lex’s best love locales

intrepid. For the more relaxed lover, these remaining sunny days
can also be enjoyed with picnics, bicycle trips and journeys out
to Goshen Pass.

by Erica Prosser
FEATURESEDITOR

Junior Lance Clack suggested a very speciﬁc romantic spot in
the “wilds” of W&L campus property.

-waiting to bring you and someone else closer.

front of Lee Chapel,” she said.

 

Art by Hollister Hovey

When you’re trapped in Lexington or Rockbridge County, where
can you go to inspire romance? No matter your budget, time con-
straints or transportation situation, romantic spots are out there

Senior Rebecca Fitzsirnmons had some quiet, outdoor ideas for
enhancing romance. “I would drive up on the Blue Ridge Parkway
to see the scenery and walk in the forest,” she said. “It’s also nice
to walk on campus when no one’s around, late in the day.”

Junior Leah Schaefer echoed those sentiments. -“It’s nice to

V walk on the front campus when it’s getting dark, along that path in

Junior Meredith Welch preferred the thought of an outdoors ,.

I experience farther from the«Colo_nnade. “The best spof” L V

“~ofDevil’s Marbleyard, looking out overAni9ld Valley, . she said.’
Lovers beware, though; the trip to the top is a strenuous hike. The
Lexington Visitor Center has directions and information for the

 
  

“Down along the Woods Creek footbridge, there’s a gravel
path,” he said. “Right there, when the grass hasn’t been mowed
and the moonlight is shining down through the trees, is the best
place.” He said that deer will sometimes wander down to the
water to drink, adding to the magic of the scene. “It’s more than
a location,” he said. “It’s also timing.”

Want a suggestion that doesn’t involve so much outdoor
activity? Restaurants are a familiar romantic destination, and in
this area, bed and breakfasts also appear as popular spots. Susie
Price, a Lexington resident, favors a combination of both. “If I
were trying to stir up a romantic evening,” she said, “I’d go to
Maple Hall.”

Local resident emestine [sic] Hockaday agreed. “I like Maple

»g_I-Iall or the~Inn at Union Run,” she said. “They’re both bed and
breakfasts, so one thing ca'u_Icl»,l"ead toanother.” _

The key to romance in Lexington is to use your imagination. It
really is the thought that counts, so be creative! Love is worth it.

wives make time for romance at W&L

at the Co—op as “a nice treat.”

The Lorigs were married 21 years ago. Before coming to Washington and
Lee, they both worked at Yale University. When Prof. Lorig was offered a job
here I 1 years ago, he moved to Lexington to work as a psychology professor
while Mrs. Lorig stayed behind another year as assistant director of careers at
Yale. After completing that year, she moved to Virginia and began doing gift
work in the development office at Roanoke College.

“It was wonderful, to move back together as a family again,” she said.

A year after moving to Lexington, Mrs. Lorig began working as the director
of the Career Development and Placement Office at W&L, where she has
remained for the past nine years.

“W&L has a good reputation. I wanted to stay at a well-respected school,

one with high quality students,” she said.

by Ken J ackman
STAFF WRITER

Once upon a time, President John Elrod
and his wife, Mimi, met on July 4, 1962, when
John was dating a friend of Mimi’s sister and
he was invited to her house. When Mimi
and John saw each other, they were instantly
attracted. From that day forth, John and Mimi
knew they had something special. They be-
gan to date, and within only four months,
they were engaged. Less than a year later
they were married. Mimi transferred from a
school in Florida to Oglethorpe University
in Atlanta so that they would be together.

Now that the loving couple is living here
at Washington and Lee University, they are

  

Photo courtesy of John and Mimi Elrod

True love in Lexington

very busy, but they enjoy the time that they
are able to spend together. After a full day
they often spend time cooking dinner and
doing the dishes together. The Elrods say that
simple tasks are that much more fun when done
together by two people who love each other.

Sometimes, however, they need to get away
from W&L to be together. In those cases, they
schedule a time to go someplace where they
can relax and enjoy each other’s company - a
weekend trip to the beach or the mountains,
for example. They even enjoy car rides together
when they can talk or listen to the radio. The
Elrods simply love to spend time together.

Do fairy tales come true? It would seem so,
because the Elrods are an enchanted couple mak-
ing time in the 1990s to live happily ever after.

Prof. Lorig is currently on sabbatical at the Monell In-
stitute in Philadelphia, researching olfaction and brain activ-

students for majors, career courses

Prof. de Maria deﬁnitely enjoys the closeness they feel as a result of work-
ing on the same campus.

“We come in together, most ofthe time go we home together, and ifl need
her in any way, shape, or form, I don’t need to go across God’s green acre to
ﬁnd her,” he said.

Sweet as that sentiment is, both the Lorigs and the de Marias admit that
working on campus with a spouse is not always a bed of roses.

Mrs. Lorig said that her pet peeve is that people somehow expect her to
have some link‘ to her husband that lets her know where he is and what he is
doing at all times.

“I don’t keep up with him,” she said.

The de Marias face a similar problem.

“I don’t know how many times that Lynda has had to transfer a call for me,”
Prof. de Maria said.

One colleague who often called Mrs. de Maria’s phone number and had her

transfer him to Prof. deMaria’s line was under the mis-
taken impression that she was the professor’s secre-

ity, and Mrs. Lorig is here advising

and post-graduation plans.
One might wonder what it must
, be like to work on the same cam-
pus with a spouse, always seeing
each other at work. Mrs. Lorig says
that, in fact, when Prof. Lorig is
here, she rarely sees him at work.
“I could be working in Roanoke
or somewhere else and it wouldn’t
have been much different,” she
said. “We focus on our work dur-

One thing is certain:
couples on campus are
going strong and
promising to stick
around for a while.

tary. Sometimes, people dial the spouse’s number un-
intentionally.

“I’ve tried to keep my maiden name [in phone list-
ings] for that reason, but it doesn’t always help,” said
Mrs. de Maria.

Although some minor confusions occur, neither
couple has any strong complaints about working to-
gether on campus. Both couples strive to keep their
work independent of their relationship and respect
each other’s professional privacy.

“[Students’] work with me is done in conﬁdentiality,”

ing the day and catch up in the
evening.”

The de Marias are another example of a successful cam-
pus couple. Robert de Maria is a professor of journalism
and mass communications, and his wife Lynda is a depart-
mental secretary for the C—School. The de Marias have
been married for only four years. Prof. de Maria is begin-
ning his 22nd year at the University, while Mrs. de Maria
has been working at W&L for four years.

The couple met when Mrs. de Maria was working in
Charlottesville at the University of Virginia.

“A former student introduced us,” Prof. de Maria ex-
plained.

Mrs. de Maria started working at W&L as a temporary
worker to ﬁll in for a woman who was having health prob-
lems. When it became evident that the woman was unable to
return, Mrs. de Maria began her pennanent work at W&L.

The de Marias enjoy working on the same campus.

“I think it has its ups and downs. We get to see ‘each
other more frequently, and being newlyweds, that’s im-
portant,” Mrs. de Maria explained.

Her only complaint? She has to work all but two weeks of
the summer, while her husband is under no such obligation.

The de Marias take care to keep the romance alive de-
spite the workplace environment, though. Like the Lorigs,
they are very busy people who generally try, but fail, to
meet for lunch.

“But we e-mail,” Mrs. de Maria added.

 

9 9 Mrs. Lorig said. “Although they might despise [Prof.
Lorig], their conversations with me are held in the strict-

est conﬁdence. That information is never shared, and they can be completely

honest, even ifit related to my spouse who is making their lives miserable.”

The de Marias agree that this privacy is vital. “We both hold our privacy
issues very dear. I have no business to know," Mrs. de Maria stated.

For issues not needing conﬁdentiality, however, having a spouse on cam-
pus can actually be a great help at work.

“When I’m frustrated with how to get faculty support for something, [Prof.
Lorig] is a good person to run ideas across, “ Mrs. Lorig offered. “We often
have a very colorful discussion about career options for students.”

The Lorigs’ jobs occasionally serve to complement each other, and each
learns from the other.

Both couples enjoy working on campus together and were hard pressed to
come up with any negative aspects of working on the same campus.

“There is none. No, it’s the truth!” Prof. de Maria insisted.

The number of campus couples makes one wonder if personnel purpose-
fully seeks couples to work on campus. Seeing how well the couples seem to
work together, perhaps the idea is not totally implausible.

Then again, it couldjust be a result ofthe size of Lexington.

“W&L is one ofthe larger employers here. It’s a challenge for a two-career
couple, a professional couple, to come to a town like this,” Mrs. Lorig said,
offering the idea that perhaps couples end up working for W&L ‘in part be-
cause they have similar interests and few other employers through which to
pursue those interests.

Whether “couples on campus” is a plot created by romantics in the person-
nel ofﬁce or merely coincidence. one thing is certain: couples on campus are
going strong and promising to stick around for a while.

i

h

I

 

 

OCTOBER 26, 1998

W&E

2 itling-tum lﬂlit

IFE

PAGE 5

News from the d-hall:

Freshman
wins pie-
eating
contest

How fast would you eat a pie for
$25? That was the challenge posed
to some very brave diners in the
Evans Dining Hall at the Dining
Service’s annual Hoe Down on Oct. 14.

The event included live musical
entertainment, clog dancers and lots
of food. As part ofthe festivities, two
women and nine men participated in
a traditional pic—eating contest.

The challenge? Who could eat a
specially prepared dessert in the
shortest amount oftime. The menu?
Chocolate cream pies designed by
kitchen staff to cause the most chaos
per bite. Entrants were not allowed
to use their hands. They sat side by
side and began munching at once.

Josh Counts, a freshman, held all
comers at bay as he chowed down his
nine-inch pie injust under 23 seconds.

Dining Services is committed to
making each meal a special event for
student diners. They have several

Photo courtesy of Emily Donahue
Freshman Josh Counts got a taste of victory at the d-hal1’s
annual Hoe Down. He ate a nine-inch pie in 23 seconds.

more extraordinary meals planned for while you’re at it, enjoy the
the fall semester, including a Hallow— award-winning cuisine,

een Lunch, Thanksgiving and Christ- —phozos and text provided by DS
mas dinners. Come join the fun and Employee Emily Donahue

Eels’ new album shocks popular music

to E’s voice accompanied by drums and a string section
that brings to mind a holiday cocktail party, which is
joined again by the familiar organ progression. On “Ant
Farm,” a country—tinged guitar part adds a pleasant touch
of ease and comfort to E’s otherwise saddening vocal
and keyboard parts.

Sadness is a major theme of the album, most evidently
in E’s lyrics. In the last year, E has experienced the death

of several family members, including his mother. Song
titles like “Going to Your Funeral,” “Cancer for
the Cure,” “The Medication is Wearing
Off,” accompanied by album artwork that
includes a cartoon gravestone stating
“Everything is Changing,” reﬂect E’s
sense of loss and confusion.

The underlying concept to his
words is not his sadness, however,
but rather his reflections through-
out his ongoing search for happi-

ness. Even though the album begins
with “waking up is so much harder
/ when you want to die,” it doesn’t
linger in depression for long. When
he sings on the title track, “take me in
your warm embrace / I am trying . . . ,” you
know he really is trying, and the general warmth

of the music makes for a compelling moment.

By the last song on the album, “PS. You Rock My
World,” E has come to a completely healthy and remark-
able epiphany. “I was at a funeral the day I realized / I
wanted to spend my life with you,” he sings, before con-
cluding the album with “maybe it’s time to live.”

Eels has been compared to Beck and Radiohead, but
in truth, there isn’t another band on the planet that comes
close to their sound. Electro-Shock Blues is a modern
masterpiece, and exemplifies a fantastic new direction
of popular music.

by Matt Lamotte

MUSIC REVIEWER

he late 90s have brought about a revolution in
I popular music. The divisions between rock, pop,
hip-hop, alternative and electronica have given
way to a general interest in combining every instrument
and every sound available in an effort to create tex-
tured fields of music that draw from almost
every imaginable source. Few bands
have succeeded at this compositional
medium as well as Eels.

Eels scored a modern rock hit
in 1996 with “Novacaine for the
Soul,” a trippy, catchy single
with an even trippier video. All
of the musical conventions
from their earlier work appear
on their second album, Electro-
Shock Blues, a unconvention-
ally delicious pop masterpiece.
Eels’ trademark drum samples,
sleepy guitar lines, whistful vocals
and irreverent lyricism are now accom-
panied by a host of new unconventional touches.

The first single, “Last Stop: This Town,” begins with
what sounds like a pleasant toy keyboard melody and it
is accompanied by lead singer E’s breathy vocals.

As the song builds, electric guitars, samples, drums,
backgroud singers and eventually a record-scratching
groove enter the mix. Instruments enter and exit ran-
domly, almost anonymously, resulting in a patchwork of
rhythm and melody that take the listener through musi-
cal colors and textures that fascinate and delight.

“My Descent Into Madness” incorporates sleigh bells
with a jazzy bassline with an organ, before yielding entirely

  
  
 
  
  
  
 

1749 1999 —provided by the
25 0"’ Nostalgia Sub-

‘H, 5; Committee and
Susan Groves

Bicenquinquagenary
Bulletin

This year, Washington and
Lee University’s School of
Law is celebrating its 150"‘ an-
niversary.

The Law School’s history is
based in the Lexington Law
School, which was established
in 1849 by Judge John W.
Brockenbrough. Annexed by
the college in 1866, the Lexing-
ton Law School became Wash-
ington and Lee’s “School of
Law and Equity.”

John Randolph Tucker,
former Attorney General for the
Commonwealth of Virginia, gen-
eral counsel for the B&O Rail-
road, and later a United States
Congressman, was appointed as
the first Dean of the law school.
The first building that separately
housed the law school was com-
pleted in 1900 and was named in
memoriam for Tucker.

Aﬁer a fire that destroyed the
first Tucker Hall in 1934 and an
unprecedented increase in enroll-
ment in the early 1970s, Lewis
Hall was constructed in 1976 and
dedicated in 1977 as the perma-
nent home of the Washington and
Lee University School of Law.

K

Phi Eta Sigma
inducts new members

The following students were in-
ducted into Phi Eta Sigma, an honor
society for freshmen, last Friday:

Bryant Edward Adams
Didem Akyel
Ashley Alliene Anderson
Lee Anne Applegate
Kathryn Rhett Baldwin
William Evan Ballard
Allison Leigh Becknell
Craig Morgan Benjamin
William Lynn Bible
Daniel Moffitt Birdwhistell
Elizabeth Eleanor Borges
Rachel Leanne Bowes
Jocelyn Hendry Bowman
Virginia Ann Brumby
Allison Michelle Brurreau
Hillary Rose Bryant
Joshua Donald Chamberlain
William David Christ 11
Jeffery Kenneth Cook
Timothy Francis Coimier
Andrea Marie Creech
Ellen Rebecca Dupps
Katherine Derbes Eagan
Dana Marie Early
Joel Patrick Fechisin
Erin Kathleen Ferguson
Emily Thomas Forman

» Jordan Samuel Ginsberg

Henry Robert Gola
Matthew Lee Gooch
Charles Tyler Green
Laura Anne Green
Susan Ellen Groves
9 Catherine Ann Harding
'9 Brendan Norman Harrington
Colin Patrick Hayes
. Anne Cummins Hazlett
Raquelle Alicia Headley
Shari Noelle Henderson
Nathan Rollins Hoot
Matthew James Howenstein
Tyler Scott J orgensen
Christina Anne Julian
Christopher William Kautiinan
HyeWon Kim 1
Timothy Allen Koss
Seori Brian Kum
Lauren Elizabeth LaFauci
Katherine Caulkins Lamb
Robert Mathias Marmorstein
' Christine Anne Metzger
Stephanie Miller
Kathleen Moroney
, T , Erica\Ney1and
Rachel Alaina Perdue
V Stephen Matthew Pesce
Sara Kristen Peterson
Stephen Lewis Philipson
Ginger Renee Phillips
Hugh Kirkpatrick Rabb
Selanga Nandun Ranawaka
Reagan Allison Reaud
Angela Christine Roman
Kimberly Ann Russell
Nicholas Robert Ryan-Lang
Megan Lindahl Schwarz
Alexander Young Sedgwick
Crystal Ann Simpson
Althea Kendall Smiley
Kathie Soroka
Gina Lynn Spezialetti
Jennifer Ruth Strawbridge
Julieann Veronica Ulin
Nathan Kyle Urquhart
Mary Elizabeth Woodard V
, 1 Patrick Beaumont Wright
Adam David Yablonski
' Dorothy Yuan

1999 Sp1‘ingpp’ﬁlfer1frxi,in Central Europe

'l'iavel to Central Europe with Prpﬁessor ’No_yaek, and explore Prague,
Ki-al<ow,,Belgrade, Budapest,.aridVfie1nia. The focus of this study abroad
9 course will be the relatiire tlevianee and norntality of being lewish in
1 Central Europe from World War II is the present.‘ Visit historic jewish
sites including Auschwitz, -syriagognes, and the lamoufslewish cenieylgery
in Prague. Arrangements will be made for students to meet with ré¢itrii;,~ '
and students at universities in the various cities on the itinerary, thus
affording participants the opportiniity to discuss both the historic and 1
and current status of lewish identity in these culturally and geogmpieaﬂy
diverse areas. The primary study eompoiient will be at the American _.
University of Bulgaria where Bulgarian students will participate fully
in the class. The total cost is $1,950.00 For further informatim, cmtac}
Professor Novack in the Depaiitrnent of Sociology and Anthropology,

Presentation

l\/lorgan means niore
career opportunities

J.P. Morgan is 0 leading global financial firm that provides strategic
advice, raises capitol, trodes financial instruments, and manages assets
for corporations, governments, financial institutions, and private clients.

Please plan to attend our information presentation for
Washington & Lee students interested in

Investment Banking
Monday, November 2

7:00 - 9:00 pm
University Center — Room 1 14

J PMorgan

www.jpmorgon.com

J.P. Morgan is on equal opportunity employer.

 

W&L holds Writers Harvest for charity

For the ﬁfth year, Washington and Lee will participate in Share our Strength's
Writers Harvest, the nation's largest literary benefit to fight hunger and poverty.

On Thursday in Northen Auditorium at 7:30 p.m., assistant English profes-
sors Christopher Camuto and Lesley Wheeler, senior Beth Perry and sophomores
Christine Metzger and Susan Slim will join more than 2,000 writers across
the country in reading their poetry and prose. A donation of $ 10 is suggested.

R.T. Smith, editor of W&L‘s “Shenandozﬂi,” says of the Lexington event, “We
have raised substantial funds in the past years to help out the hungry, but last
year the turnout was disappointing. I hope people will join us this October.”

For those who can’t attend but would like to make a donation, please send
checks made payable to Share Our Strength to Smith in care of “Shenandoah”
at Washington and Lee. _

Tobias Wolff, chair of Writers Harvest 1998 and author of “This Boy's Life,”
said, “Writers Harvest is an occasion to be alert, to be awake about what’s
going on around us. It is an occasion to celebrate the possibilities of art — to
recognize that it can be a part of our moral atmosphere.”

Professor Jeans publishes essay

Roger Jeans, the Elizabeth Lewis Otey Professor of East Asian History at
Washington and Lee University, has published an essay in a new book titled
“George C. Marshall's Mediation Mission to China: Decemeber l945—January
1947.” The book was published by the George C. Marshall Foundation.

Jeans essay is titled “Last Chance for Peace: Zhang Junmai (Carsun Chang)
and Third-Party Mediation in the Chinese Civil War, October 1946.”

The book, a collection of 24 essays from authors in seven different coun-
tries, was edited by Lariy I. Bland, editor of the Marshall Papers Project and
managing editor of the “Joumal of Military History,” and also contains an
essay by Mark F. Wilkinson, professor of American diplomatic and modern
East Asian history at VMI.

Wind ensemble presents fall concert

The music department at Washington and Lee University will present its
Fall Wind Ensemble concert on Nov. 3 at 8 p.m. in the Lenfest Center for the
Performing Arts. Admission is free.

Under the baton of Barry H. Kolman, professor of music, the University
Wind Ensemble will perform "Slava!" by Leonard Bernstein, "Variations on
Est-ce Mars" by Sweelinck, and "March, Op. 99" by Prokofief. The concert
also features works by Woolfenden, Jacob, Jolo, Bourgeois and Cese.

Troubadour hosts Vampire Film Festival

The Washington and Lee Film Society will celebrate Halloween with a Vam-
pire Film Festival, Oct. 29-31. Thursday features "Nosferatu" (Germany, 1922),
directed by F.W. Mumau (silent version). On Friday, the featured ﬁlm is
"Cronos" (Mexico, 1992), directed by Guillermo del Toro, in Spanish with
subtitles. The last ﬁlm on Saturday is "The Addiction" (USA, 1995), directed
by Abel Ferrara, in English.

Each showing will be at 7:30 p.m. in the Troubadour Cinema, at the comer
of Main and Henry Streets. There is no charge for admission, although contri-
butions are welcome. Viewers should be prepared for a few surprises in the
theater.

Solution to crossword Projectﬂorizpn sponsors
puzzle 0" page 8 talk on Dating Violence
Aimee Perron of Project Hori-

zon will speak about dating vio-
lence 7 p.m. Tuesday in Northen
Auditorium.

Subscribe to

Elie ﬁling-turn lillii

Send a check for $30 to The Ring-
tum Phi, University Center,
W&L, Lexington, VA 24450

 

 

 

 

 

 

@112 iﬁiug-tum lﬂlii

Which Big5 firm
can offer you    
  a topcareor,
    3 balanced life:

and a passpartto a
world of opportunity?

Don’t worry. We won’t need to see your
passport photo. At Deloitte ér Touche, we
may be big, but were very friendly. And
we’re all about cultivating meaningful
relationships. Which is precisely why we’re
coming to visit on campus. There’s so much

we have to offer you as a Big 5 leader, like

i legendary company stability. . .the strength

of a $7+ billion global organization. . .top
challenges and clients. .. easy movement
between functional practice areas. . .an array
of programs that inspire a sensible work/life
balance. (We know you have a life outside

work. Well let you live it.)

We’re coming
to campus to
meet you.
Full-time, internships, externships
See your Placement Office for details!

Accounting, Information Systems

and Business-Related majors

Openings in. . .Assurance and
Advisory (audit) Services, Tax
Services, Enterprise Risk Services,
Management Solutions Sr Services

(middle market consulting)

Washington, D.C. 0 Northern Va.
. 0 Baltimore 0 Richmond.

is

Currently, we are seeking the best and
brightest college candidates who are ready to
begin their promising future in our Mid-
Atlantic Practice, a practice that’s doubled in
revenue over the last three years alone!!
We‘ll be extending offers after we visit
campus. And we’ll be inviting selected
candidates with offers to attend a Weekend
Event in Annapolis, MD, we call:
“Passport To a World of Opportunity.” It’s
an opportunity for us to get to know you
even better. (The event will run from Friday
morning, Oct. 30th, to Saturday afternoon,
Oct. 31st.) All food, entertainment and
accommodations are on us. We’ll even have
you back on campus in time to continue
your personal weekend plans. So, let’s
CONNECT. If you’re unable to meet with
us, we offer plan  which is to forward
your resume to: Deloitte &‘ Touche LLP,
College Recruiting, 1900 M Street, NW
Washington, DC 20036. Visit our website at

www.us.deloitte.com

In addition to being named one

of the 100 Best Companies to

Work for in America by Fortune"’
magazine, we have been recog-
nized by Workforce and Working
Mother for our innovative

work/life balance programs, and by
Computerworld and Information Week
for use of technology in the
workplace. Deloitte & Touche is an
equal opportunity firm We recruit,
employ, train, compensate, and
promote without regard to race,
religion, creed, color, national
origin, age, gender, sexual
orientation, marital status, ,, C , , , , ,
disability or veteran status.

 

@112 Iﬂing-tum lﬁht

‘ OCTOBER 26, 1998 . PAGE 7

  ‘Women’s soccer clinches ODAC regular season title

 

, This Week

1 Men’s soccer @ Roanoke

it Women’s soccer TBA*

‘ Football @ Bridgewater

,. Men’s soccer @ Salisbury

by Frances Groberg

SPORTS EDITOR

This year, the women’s soccer
team has put it all together, accom-
plishing two of their primary goals
this weekend.

First, the team captured its ﬁrst

1 regular season ODAC regular sea-

son title on Saturday by defeating
the Randolph-Macon Yellow Jack-
ets 2- 1.

‘Volleyball
‘spikes to
.victory

The victory sealed the second team
goal, ensuring that Washington and
Lee will host the ODAC tournament
on Friday and Saturday.

Saturday will also be "senior
day," in which the women’s soccer
program will honor senior tri-cap-
tains Elizabeth Richey, Nicole
Johnson, and Karin Treese.

Sophomore Lindsay Williams, start-
ing for the ﬁrst time this season, put
the Generals on top just 3:50 into the

game. Three minutes later, however,
the Yellow Jackets tied the game 1-1
with _a successful comer kick.

Senior captain Karin Treese,
W&L’s all-time leading goalscorer,
broke the tie with her ﬁnal regular-
season goal in the second half to put
the Generals up 2-1 .

“It was the fnst goal I’ve ever scored
against Randolph-Macon,” Treese
said. ‘‘It’s a great feeling to win, and a
great feeling to host ODACs.”

Sophomore goalie Lauren Harris
posted eight key saves in the second
half for W&L, when most of the action
was on the Generals’ side of the ﬁeld.

‘‘I’m really proud of the way the team
played,” Harris said. “We’ve started
playing really well together lately, but
we still have some aspects of our game
to ﬁx. We are still young, and a little
nervous, as the last ten minutes of
Saturday’s game showed.”

Thursday, the Generals coasted to

an easy 10-0 victory over Emory and
Henry. Treese posted a hat trick in the
game, her third of the season. Junior
forward Ginny Jemigan and sopho-
more midﬁelder Courtney Nolan each
scored two goals in the contest.

Last Saturday, W&L routed the
College of Notre Dame 7-0. Goals
were posted by sophomore Marga-
ret Hunter-Turner, Treese, J ernigan,
and Williams. Harris and junior
goalie Stephanie McKnight com-

by Steele Cooper

STAFF WRITER

The Generals volleyball team
tacked up one more win at the
Warner Center this week by defeat-

‘ ing Christopher Newport (15-3, 15-
8, 15-10) on Thursday.

The win was the team’s 11th

straight victory since losing to Tho-
K mas Moore exactly one month ago,
I September 26.

Washington and Lee is now 20-2
overall going into the final two
games of the regular season before
the ODAC tournament. They remain
ranked sixth in the region, on track
for the NCAA tournament.

Once again, freshman Ricka
Hildebrand led the offensive attack

gfor the Generals with eight kills
against Christopher Newport.

“We played really well as a team,
and I think we’re coming together
well in time for the post season,”

“ Hildebrand said.

W&L was also led by their deep
roster of veteran players. Junior
Nancy Riendhart totaled six kills,

(three aces, and 14 digs in the match.
Sophomore Pam Saulsbury led the
setters with 10 assists and recorded
10 digs as well.

On October 17, W&L traveled to

I the Goucher Invitational and posted a
4-0 record to take the championship.

The Generals defeated Alvernia
(15-6, 15-12, 15-10), Goucher(15-13, 15-
13,6-15, 15-12, and 15-12,20-18, 15-4),
and Seton Hill (15-3, 13-15, 15-1 1, 15-
8). Freshman Lindsay Ruckert was
named to the al 1-toumament team.

The Generals will travel to East-

ﬁern Mennonite on Tuesday after-
noon, and will be back in the Warner
Center against rival Roanoke Col-
lege on Saturday at 12 noon. The
match will be their ﬁnal contest be-
fore the ODAC tournament.

Tuesday

Women’s soccer vs.
Emory & Henry 2:30 p.m.

Volleyball @ Eastern
Mennonite

Wednesday

Friday

Saturday

Women’s soccer TBA*

State

Volleyball vs. Roanoke 12
noon.

*Provided the team
wins in the previous
round

Wiginton hits 42-
yard ﬁeld goal in
23-21 comeback

by Brendan Harrington

SPORTS EDITOR

It’s never over till it’s over.

Those words hit home on Sat-
urday afternoon at Wilson Field
as freshman Brad Wiginton’s 42-
yard ﬁeld goal attempt split the
uprights as time expired to give
Washington and Lee a dramatic
23-21 come-from-behind victory
over Sewanee.

The Generals scored 16 points
in the ﬁnal 4:41 to overcome a 21-
7 fourth quarter deﬁcit in what
was one of the most exciting
games in the history of Washing-
ton and Lee football.

“It was one of the most amazing
games I’ve ever been apart of,” said
junior quarterback Christian
Batcheller. “I don’t think I’ll ever
forget it.”

“It was a great win for us,”
Miriello said following the‘ e.

that’s been knocked around so far
this year.”.

Sewaneejumped out to a 14-0
second quarter lead, but the Gen-
erals cut the lead to 14-7 with 2:31
left in the second quarter on a 1 1-
yard touchdown pass from
Batcheller to junior wide receiver
J.T. Malatesta.

The Tigers went ahead 21-7
with 6:42 left in the third quarter
on Brian Morrison’s two-yard
touchdown run, his second
touchdown of the game.

With 5:18 left in the game and
the Generals still trailing 21-7,
Batcheller threw a 44-yard pass to
senior wide receiver Chas Chastain
on a 4th and 14 play which gave
the Generals ﬁrst and goal on the
Sewanee one-yard line.

On the next play, junior fullback
Scott Moses scored on a one-yard
run to make the score 21-14 with
4:41 leﬁto play.

The Generals defense then
forced the Tigers to punt and W&L
got the ball back with 2:48 remain-
ing. The Generals then drove 70
yards in just 50 seconds as sopho-
more tailback Marc Watson ran it
in from one yard out to make it 21-
20 with 0:51 left.

In a controversial decision, Head
Coach Frank Miriello decided to go

‘‘It’s big time medtcinerori team. 

You have to contain! Junior defensive back Harry Brookby tries to get around a block and
get to the ball carrier during the Generals’ miracle comeback at Wilson Field on Saturday.

for the two point conversion to try
and get the win instead of kicking the
extra-point and settling for overtime.
The two—point conversion failed,
however, as Batcheller couldn’t con-
nect with Watson in the end zone and
the Generals still trailed by one.
“The decision to go for two was
made ﬁve minutes ahead of time,”
Miriello said. “Their offense can eat
up 25 yardsjust like that and we didn’t
think we could stop them in overtime,
so we didn’t think twice about going
for the win if we got the touchdown.”
Just as it looked as though there
was no hope, the Generals executed
the on-sides kick to perfection and
sophomore Tom Monaco recovered
placekicker Andy Vendig’s perfectly
struck ball on the W&L 48-yard line.
“Andy practices that all the time
and he executed it to perfection,”
Miriello said.
The Generals then drove down
to the Sewanee 34-yard line, where

Freshman saves day

Batcheller connected with tight end
Scott Humphreys on a crucial 4th
and 5 play, giving the Generals a ﬁrst
down at the 25 yard-line with 1 1 sec-
onds remaining.

Instead of spiking the ball, the Gen-
erals rushed their ﬁeld goal unit onto
the ﬁeld, and Wiginton nailed the 42-
yarder as time expired. It was his ﬁrst
collegiate ﬁeld goal attempt.

Wiginton has kicked extra points all
season long for W&L, but just this week
Miriello decided to make Wiginton the
man for ﬁeld goals as well.

“ It was the kind of opportunity you
dream of,” Wiginton said. “ I mean,
what more could you ask for?”

After the ﬁeld goal split the up-
rights, the entire team piled on top of
Wiginton, while Coach Miriello and his
son T.D., who carries the cable for the
headset, embraced on the sideline in
an emotional moment.

“Our kids never, ever quit,” Miriello
said. “I told the guys before the game

Emily Barnes/Photo Editor

that when you have two 1-5 teams
it comes down to who can handle
adversity the best. Things started
out rough, but we kept adjusting
and we didn’t let it get to us.”
“After not living up to expecta-
tions so far this year, a lot of people
expect us to just quit, but we
don’t,” Batcheller said. “This was
a huge win for our conﬁdence.”
The Tigers ﬁnished with 375
yards rushing for the game but
had only eight yards passing.
Quarterback Max Fuller ﬁnished
with 198 yards rushing on 24 car-
ries to lead the Tigers. Watson
had another solid game for the Gen-
erals with 20 carries for 84 yards
and a touchdown. Batcheller was
17-37 for 219 yards with one touch-
down and one interception.
“Now we have something to
shoot for,” Batcheller said. “ If we
win our last three we can end the
season with a .500 record.”

SCORE BY QUARTERS

Sewanee (1-6)
Washington & Lee (2-5)

First Downs
Rushes-Yds (Net)
Passing Yds (Net)
Passes Att-Com-Int

Fumble Returns-Yds
Punt Returns-Yds
Kickoff Returns-Yds
Interception Returns-Yds
Punts (No. Average)
Fumbles-Lost
Penalties-Yds

Possession Time

Sacks By Number-Yds

Total Offensive Plays-Yds

Game Statistics

1 2 3 4
7 7 0 — 21
0 7 0 16 —- 23
S WLU
16 20
61-375 33-118
8 219
7-1-0 37-17-1
68-383 70-337
0-0 1-0
3-15 2-20
3-38 2-44
1-0 2-27
6-34.2 6-37.8
.2-1 1-0
6-68 6-73
31:50 28:10
5-28 0-0

RUSHING: S — Max Fuller 24-198, D. DeLaughter 12-72, Brian Morrison
15-60, Micah Elliott 10-45. W&L —- Marc Watson 20-84, C. Batcheller

8-19, Scott Moses 5-15.

PASSING: Sewanee—Max Fuller 1-7-0-8. Washington and Lee-C.

Batcheller 17-37-1-219.

RECEIVING: S-Ted Morrissey 1-8. Washington and Lee-J.T. Malatesta
4-53, David Ritchey 4-52, Chas Chastain 3-48, Scott Humphreys 3-46,

Marc Watson 3-20.

INTERCEPTIONS: S —- J. Beddingﬁeld 1-0. W&L —None.
SACKS: S- Brian Tyler 3-0, A. Tamburiello 2-0. W&L — None.
TACKLES: S — Robert I-lolley 5-5, A. Tamburiello 5-4, Billy Lewis 5-
3, Eddie Yeh 3-2, Michael Stanley 3-2, Brian Tyler 3-0, Towaski Hunt 2-
1, Johns Sears 0-3, Neal Chase 1-1, C. Edmiston 0-2, Brian Morrison 1-
0, Jason Hamilton 1-0, Jason Wheat 1-0, Neal Smith 1-0, Esau McAulley
1-0, T. Burrells 0- 1, R. Whittington 0-1, Steven Chandler 0-1, Rodney
Walker 0-1 , Jay Donnelly 0-1. W&L — Andy Robinson 4-8, Brad Baker
5-5, Jayson Lipsey 4-5, Will Baker 5-3, Josh Myerberg 4-4, Harry
Brookby 4-3, M. Navalkowsky 2-4, Ben Middendorf 3-2, John
McAllister 2-2, Jeff Mclntyre 2- 1, Scott King 1-2, Ross Kester 1-2, Lee
Swomley 1-1, Chas Chastain 1-0, C. Fitzgibbons 1-0, Bill McGettigan 0-
1, James Person 0- 1, Keith Prusek 0- 1, Scott Humphreys 0- 1.

bined for the shutout, the sixth of
the season.

On Wednesday of last week, the
team handed Lynchburg College its
f1rstODAC loss since 1996 by a score
of 2-1. Both goals were scored by
freshman Kate Bidwell.

The Generals will host Sweet Briar
on Tuesday afternoon in the ﬁrst
round of the ODAC tournament. The
game will be played at the Liberty Hall
Fields starting at 3:00 p.m.

Soccer
unbeaten
in last nine

by Tod Williams

STA FF WRITER

On Saturday, the men’s soccer
team hosted Randolph-Macon as
their Parents’ Weekend opponent.
The Generals shut out the Yellow
Jackets, winning their last home
game of the regular season.

Washington and Lee, who is 8-0-
1 in their last nine games, broke the
W&L record for most consecutive
games without a loss on Saturday
with their 1-0 win over RMC.

The team has only lost two games
this year, to Virginia Wesleyan and
Eastern Mennonite. Both games
were back in September.

This is the third season in a row
W&L’s win column has been in
double digits, the most times in
school history.

66

We’re not
looking too far
- . - -for-ward.-We .
have two huge
games in front

of us.
—Jamie Parker

1

—-—-->7

With the victory, the Generals
clenched a home berth for at least
the first round of post-season
ODAC playoffs.

W&L keeper E. J. Murphy had
ﬁve saves in Saturday’s game off
nine RMC shots. Murphy has al-
lowed seven goals this season, and
has notched seven shutouts this
year, six of which have come in the
last seven games.

The only goal in the game came
from junior midﬁelder Jamie Parker, his
ninth on the year. His goal, at 65:59,
was the third in a series of General
shots after a penalty kick. Yellow
Jacket goalkeeper Michael Matson
saved the ﬁrst two attempts.

After scoring half of the Gener-
als’ goals for the week, Parker said
he was “happy things were ﬁnally
coming together” for him this year.

Tuesday afternoon the Generals
shut out Ferrum College 3-0 at the
Liberty Hall Fields in their second-
to-last regular season home game of
the year.

Despite a scoreless first half,
three different Generals pulled it to-
gether to record goals.

Junior midfielder Scott
LeToumeau scored ﬁrst, just 31 sec-
onds into the second. _

Parker quickly followed suit,
scoring his eighth goal of the sea-
son at 54:34.

Sophomore midfielder Scott
Lofranco scored his fourth goal of the
season in the game off a header from
freshman Paul Wallace’s comer kick
to boost the Generals to the victory.

Although the Generals could now
be riding high after nine games with-
out a loss, Parker said the team’s
main goal is staying focused for the
last of the regular season games.

“We’re not looking too far for-
ward,” he said. “We’ve still got two
huge games ahead of us.”

The Generals, who now stand at
10-2-2, will travel to Roanoke on
Wednesday for a 4:00 p.m. contest.
The 13-2-1 Maroons are ranked sev-
enth nationally in Division III play.

 

 

PAGE 8

Humor Page

LAST W

Ellie Tiling-tum lﬂlrt

ORD

 

OCTOBER 26, 1998

$520 billion national budget explained

by Kevin McManemin

MY BOLOGNA HASA FIRST NAME

Those of you who keep up with
the news (i.e. a couple ofjournalism
professors) probably know that Con-
gressjust passed a massive $520 bil-
lion budget ﬁlled with more pork than
Rush Limbaugh’s pantry. The bill
spanned 3,825 pages, making it almost
half as long as “War and Peace.”

It weighed about 40 pounds. Re-
ally — it said that in The Washington
Post. No, I don’t know why anyone
would want to weigh the federal bud-
get either (sorry guys, I don’t have
the budget’s other measurements,
though inside sources swear it’s at
least a D-cup).

The point is that it’s really friggin’
big and no Congressman has read the
entire thing (the Mississippi represen-
tatives haven’t even gotten through
the ﬁrst paragraph). Yes sir, it’s good
economic times in the U.S. ofA and
the cash is being passed around like a
bong at a Pink Floyd concert.

WHERE THE MoNEY’s GOING

I $56,000 for presidential cigars

I $2 billion aid package to Russia
to keep capitalism from failing

I $3 billion for nukes for when
Russian capitalism inevitably fails

I $1.2 million for a new solar-
powered, energy-efﬁcient Al Gore

I $920 million to the Ken Starr
“Let’s drag out this painful spectacle as
long as we possibly can” fund

I $1.3 million for new soﬁware
after a mysterious virus wiped out all
justice department hard drives during
the Microsoft trial

I $3 million for the research, de-
velopment and testing of a new, hyper-
sappy catch phrase/cliché candidates
can run into the ground in the upcom-
ing elections

I $45 billion so that NASA can
continue our important national en-
deavor of shooting nerds into space

I $4 billion to hire new teachers
to ﬁll that fortiﬁed trench line we call the
public education system

WHERE THE MONEY CAME FROM
Well, when a mommy dollar and a

The government receives its rev-
enue from a wide number of sources
including you, me and the rest ofthe
middle class. The rich have accoun-
tants who are able to ﬁnd wonderful
loopholes like getting agricultural sub-
sidies for their yachts if they plan to
go ﬁshing on them. Rich people actu-
ally make money by paying taxes.

Until the middle class’ hard-eamed
money can be redistributed among the
poor and rich, the government puts the
money in the bank. Last year, the
United States government opened up
a savings account at Citibank. The
government got a competitive 5.6
percent compounded quarterly inter-
est rate on the national treasury and
a checking account with a free check-
book in their choice of the plain blue,
spring ﬂowers or world landmarks de-
sign. The government also refi-
nanced the mortgage on Alaska and
got a free toaster as part of Citibank’s
guaranteed service.

THE NATIONAL DEBT

In the past quarter century the
United States has seen its national debt
balloon like a ﬁeshman girl’s thighs af-

I $4 billion to solve the Social
Security crisis by shipping everyone
over 65 to Indonesia

 

  

I he ﬁatitously reported  y 

:-Supreme .Cotirt"¢ontract:', 9 

,  -~ n¢g0ti3.tl°¥1$4h°3§til!.P.~.  

V Washington, D.C..—¥1Justice‘Antoiiinﬁcalia‘ if

A will become a free agent effective  iftlie 
Suprern€;C0urt,d0e$i;’:t exercise'itsVoptioi1,t ;,\:e- 

_ sign  for the 1998-99 season. scaiia, tiié.iea§ue .:

 . leader in ‘.‘guilty”~.verdicts,».has demandedasalarfygj _
. ,o'f$l0 million  well overthe  .4
‘ .1 in theiconstitution‘ “eleven lpence;handva»half-ﬁj
"Qshillingperfortnightﬁ , ‘  ~ ' I  »

 

  

.~ I_ Z  The Court is apprehensive. about ‘losing. a (V ,
» jﬁother veteran justice so soon’ after trading ‘Ruth ,7 .-
. ‘Bader Ginsberg and David Souter to‘Grea't-Britain_,1.,_
 in return for a Chief Magistrate and two lower court a ‘
judges to be named later. . , , j 3 V
L If Scalia does not re-sign with the Supreme Court, K A
s it isjexpected that he’ll retain amateur judicial sta- -, 
tus so he can compete in the 2002 Olympics; 0

Loser to be made cool; by -
“South Park” rnejrchandisei ,
Indianapolis, IN .—~ Local loser Terrence 
Phelps, 16, announced plans to buy a f‘South Park” ‘
t-shirt ina press conference. heldearlier today. .
“(The show’ ‘SouthParl<?:. is.reaIly:,edgyvand.icool,»
. Wcaringa‘South Parl<"t-shirtywillrnalcejrneedgy,=L
and coolaswell,” Phelps explaineda   ~ 
His classmates at Grover Cleveland .Hig-l‘1 :
, School, .195 of whom already own "‘~Soutir,l’ark’3 t--J ‘iv
. shirts, were stunned by tlreiaimouncernent. “’W:0i\lV,i .5
I always thought Terrence was,’ like, atotal,itool,” V »
"Amanda Gilrnour said, “but ifhe’s the kind .
thinking rebel who would watch such aVhip,~ sub», 
versive show and then ‘buy a_‘mass‘rnarl§eted't- 
shirt to let‘ everyone 'éIse know hevwatciiesthé..
show, like,Imean, howVco_i'ol!”    F  “
Phelps has not yet decided whether he will buy .1 
the “Beefcake, BEEFCAKE?’  shirt or the . )
“Oh my God, you killed Kenny! You bastards!’?;;“
shirt. “I’m currently leaning towards the Kenny t- ,  .
shirt as wearing a mild profanity to class will make V
me even cooler,” Phelps said. I .» '

El Niiio blamed for failure.
of “The Magic Hour” 
Los Angeles, CA — Fox network executives‘
are blaming the weather phenomenon known as . 4
El Niﬁo for the failure of their short-lived, ill-con- ,
ceived summer talk travesty “The Magic Hour.”
“High pressure cold fronts in the South Paciﬁc v
caused the light-headedness of our programmers
and clouded their reasoning, allowing them to think
that a man like Magic Johnson, so utterly devoid
of media savvy or the slightest hint of comic tal-
ent, would be successful in hosting his own
Carson-rip-off talk show,” Fox head Rupert
Murdoch said.
Fox execs claim that El Nifio also affected the
comicsphere, a layer of the atmosphere through
I which television comedy is transmitted. “El Nifio’ s
storms ‘managed to block the transmission of
Magic’s biting wit, his suave charm and his subtle
satiric nuances,” Murdoch said. “Unfortunately,
the uncomfortable interviews, the dim-witted
sketches and the embarrassing monologues were
transmitted just ﬁne.” .
Inside sources say producers are regretting not
trying their original NBA talk show ideas, such as
‘ “The Vlade Divac Show,” ‘”Ihe Gheorghe Muresan
Hour” and “LateNight with Mookie Blaylock.”

daddy dollar fall in love . . .
WHERE THE MONEY REALLY
CAME FROM

ter two months of the D-hall. The na-
tional debt is all due to one singular
historical development: the credit card.

Throughout the 80s and 90s, the gov-
ernment simply charged everything. “Is
there a war with Iraq? We’l1 charge it.
Welfare mothers can’t afford crack on
their own? Here,just put it on our Visa.”
The “buy now, pay later” mentality
fostered by credit cards workedjust ﬁne
for America; until of course that fateful
day when “now” became “later.” Sud-
denly, like so many college students
who spent the whole term charging beer,
beer and beer to their cards, the govem-
ment got a bill it couldn’t possibly pay
and shit its collective pants.
Currently, the nation has advanced
beyond the “concerned” stage of debt
and into the “complete and utter apa-
thy” stage. The debt is now so stag-
geringly large we know we’ll never pay
it off, so we’ve stopped caring.
Adding to the apathy is the fact
that this whole thing doesn’t make
much sense to most non-economics
majors (or the clinical term, “cool
people”). Really, how can a nation
even be in debt, who the hell had a
couple trillion dollars lying around to
lend us, and do they honestly expect
us to pay it back? 4
How THE BUDGET WILL AFFECT YOU
The funny thing about our coun-
try passing laws not even the lawmak-

ers have read is that no one is really
sure what they’ll do. However, based
on the general theory that modern poli-

tics is of minimal importance to every-
one except politicians‘ lives, I
wouldn’t lose any sleep over it.

“Urban Legend” gets ax

by Brian Prisco
PHI MOVIE GUY

 

W 3 4 5
(WAIT UNTIL ITCOMES OUT ON HBO)

I love horror movies. A bunch of nubile teenagers run-
ning around having sex and drinking beer only to be slaugh-
tered by some hatchet-wielding maniac dressed up like a
lumberjack or plumber. Who doesn’t love that? However,
“Urban Legend,” the Hollywood machine’s latest attempt
at the fonnulaic Neo-Horror movement, falls ﬂat on its face
and starts digging.

Now, the current trend in horror movies is fresh and
provocative. It follows what I call the “Scream” formula,
created by Kevin Williamson (who also wrote this movie).
The cast, a bunch of attractive teenagers, are assaulted
by the killer, a faceless entity who wears an outﬁt that

 

11 12 13
29 so
33 34
so 51 52
5
lss so 61

Crossword Puzzle

(answers on page 5)

ACROSS DOWN

1 Record I Bugle call

5 Waste conduit 2 J ai —

10 Sea eagles 3 Love of country
14 King of comedy 4 Vane dir.

15 Came I0 light 5 Caustic wit

16 Flood survivor 6 Blow up

17 Party snack 7 Sported

18 Purring bird 8 NYC’s time: abbr.
20 Knight’s title 9 Set free

21 Ready to pick I0 Put up with

22 Exhibited in abundance 1 1 Cruciﬁx

23 Inactive 12 Hub

25 So-so I3 Outbuilding

26 Settled routine I9 Leaves

28 Most speedy 21 Guns an engine
31 Bank posting 24 Actor Coward
32 Takes it easy 25 Disconcerts

33 Hitched 26 Jane or Zane

35 Corrupt 27 Flattering reviews
36 Encrusted 28 Deceptive one
37 “From — to Eternity” 29 Honey

38 Okay 30 Pithy

39 Augurs 32 Burdened

40 Singer Della 34 Forest denizen
41 Tinler 36 Mammoth

43 Hub 37 Barnyard fowl
44 Jungle king 39 Russian pancakes
45 Saucy 40 Kind of admiral
46 Tints 42 “- Restaurant”
49 Animal’s place 43 Felonies

50 Pitcher handle 45 Bowl

53 Love of self 46 Break suddenly
55 El —, Tex. 47 Yarn

56 Out of the wind 48 Sector

57 High mountain nest 49 Italian money
58 Opera solo 51 Continent

59 Vegetable dish 52 Chestnut color
60 Tilts 54 Understand

62 Musial or Freberg 55 _ de deux

© 1994 Tribune Media Services

everyone in town possesses (i.e. a Halloween mask, a
ﬁsherman’s raincoat). The killer turns out to be after only
one of the cast members, usually because they did some-
thing terrible involving the death ofa loved one. Simple
enough, right? Not for this one, kiddies.

The plot is . . . well, okay. Horror movies don’t really
NEED a plot. Someone gets killed, everyone gets sad, they
drink a bunch of beer and have sex, someone gets killed
again. Lather rinse repeat, blah blah blah. This movie hinges
its story on urban legends: modern folklore stories that
are supposed to be true and everyone has heard before
(the baby-sitter who puts the baby in the oven, the killer
who hides in the back seat ofthe car, ifyou rub President
Elrod’s head you’ll get three wishes, etc.).

The killer in this movie runs around killing people a la
urban folklore. He hides in the back seat of one girl’s car
with an ax and when she ﬁnally turns around, swish swish
she’s minus a head. Nice twist, and the legends chosen are
well-known and appropriate to the story. So the plot is

virtually an urban legend himself. They might want to
give the man more than 15 minutes screen time. Key to movie
making: if you have brilliant professionals, USE THEM.

So we’ve got a half-assed story being acted out by people
no one knows. I think in realizing this, the ﬁlmmakers sort of
got bored and tried to put the story out of its misery with the
hideous ending. It’s contrived, it’s asinine, it’s boring— let’s
not mince words, it f"‘ * * ing blows. Let’s end a pitiful attempt
at a horror movie with an even worse ending that will leave
the audience crying . . . for their money back.

Perhaps most confusing of all, this movie is just not
scary. I’m a chickenshit when it comes to horror movies —
I cover my eyes, I look away, and ljump four feet in the air.
But this moviejust doesn’t scare you. The killer isn’t fright-
ening and they might as welljust write a telegraphed mes-
sage across the bottom of the screen letting you know
when people arejumping out.

Don’t waste time or money watching this ﬂick. Go to
the video store and rent “Halloween” or “Nightmare on
Elm Street” if you want to be scared. Wait until “Scream 3,” or
“I Still Know What You Did Last Summer’ ’ comes out (which
consequently I can’t wait for because the trailer gave me a
heart attack). This Urban Legend should be forgotten.

  

If you loolt hero to solve
your problems...

thing you'll find
is an empty glass.

loin the 55% of Vlél. students who manaéc college life
without relying} on alcohol to solve their problems

TAKE CONTROL.

Low-risk drinking is as easy as 1, 1, 3...
D No more thanl drinlt per hour
D No more than 1 times per wcclt
D No more than 3 drinks per occasion

AECOIIOE AWARENESS WEEK

     
 

 

 

