  Ultra ﬂing-tum

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITv’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

VOLUME 101, NO. 17

EC races end
in run-offs

Executive Commitee presidency,
vice-presidency still up for grabs

By Elianna Marziani
STAFF WRITER

Last Wednesday, following contro-
versy over Honor System procedures,
Washington and Lee University stu-
dents voted to elect their Big Five rep-

. resentatives.

Today, they had to do it again.

Two-way ties occurred in the races
for Executive Committee president and
vice president. Students had to choose
between sophomore Jeff Cook and jun-
ior Erin McGrain for EC president in
the run-off election. Junior Ross
Niblock and second-year law student
Jonathan McCrary will vie for the EC
vice-presidency.

Second—year law student Ashlyn
Dannelly was elected EC secretary in
an unopposed race, while Junior
Athena Mahoney was elected to the
Student Judiciary Council presidency.
Sophomore Jordan Ginsberg will serve
as SJC secretary.

All of these students were pleased
to be elected. “I am extremely excited
about my position as EC secretary,”
Dannelly said. She looks forward to
the opportunity to make the EC more
understandable and relevant to the
student body.

“During the past few weeks, I real-
ized that there are so many things stu-
dents do not understand about the EC

and its procedures,” Dannelly said.
“Secretary is the perfect position to
help better publicize the EC and in-
crease students’ understanding of
what the EC does on a weekly basis.”

Dannelly is on her way to realizing
this goal. “I want to continue to work
hard for the good of the university and
for the Honor System I believe so
strongly in.”

Mahoney was also very excited to
be elected as SJC president and to have
the opportunity to serve the W&L
community.

“I’ve had a lot of experience with
the SJC, and I know the procedures
well,” Mahoney said. “I have pride‘ in
our council because we dedicate our-
selves to maintaining a student body
with a respectable reputation as far as
student conduct is concerned.”

Ginsberg said he was “ecstatic” to
receive the news of his victory as SJC
secretary, though he did run unop-
posed. “I think I represent the W&L
community well  Iwill try to take [the
SJC] in a direction to bring it to more
prominence in the W&L community,”
Ginsberg said. Since he served as
sophomore SJC representative this
past year, Ginsberg feels that he has
“is familiar with the SJC procedures”
and can do a goodjob in office.

“I know what’s going on — I’m an
informed member of the SJC,” he said.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

iﬂlri

F MONDAY, MARCH 8, 1999

Le Bal Masque

In the spirit of the evening, junior Geoff Haydon (Zorro) and senior Kendra Archer (a Flamenco dancer) discover the
magic of the Renaissance Era. For a pictoral of Le Bal Masqué, see pages 3-6.

Kennedy ready to rack A Senior receives Fulbright

By Polly Doig

NEWS EDITOR

, Famed Republican activist, author
and former model Lisa Kennedy Mont-
gomery will speak in Lee Chapel this
Thursday.

You might know her simply as
Kennedy. I

The former MTV
veejay and host of the
nightly video show,
“Alternative Nation,”
will give a free lecture
sponsored by Contact
and the Women’s Fo-
rum at 7 p.m. Thursday.

“I think it’s really
good that we’re getting I
somebody younger,”
Contact member
Roshni Nirody said.
“It’ll be easier for W&L
students to relate to
her. She’s focusing on
the fact that she’s a
conservative activist in
a ﬁeld dominated by
liberals.”

Kennedy grew up
near Portland, Ore., the
daughter of a lawyer
and an artist. As a teen-
ager she was politically
active. She worked for
her state representa-
tive, visited the White
House twice as a par-
ticipant in Girls’ State
and Girls’ Nation, and
tried a run for town
council at the age of 17.

“I really wanted to
get in for idealistic rea-
sons,” Kennedy said.

i 1 “Aslgrew up,I’d read

the paper and go to
meetings at city hall
and think, dude, I can
make a difference.”
Kennedy’s ambi-
tions led her to an in-
temship at one ofthe biggest altema-
tive radio stations in the country,
KROQ in Los Angeles. While there,
she was given a one-show tryout at
the age of 19. The show was a suc-
cess, and she was hired as a full-time
disc jockey and earned the on-air nick-

It name “the virgin Kennedy.”

Less than a year later, Kennedy

was introduced to an MTV executive,
auditioned and was hired as a veejay.
She brought with her a peculiar sense
of fashion, trademark Buddy Holly
glasses and breathed humor into the
conservative point ofview.

“I’ve been into music all my life,”
Kennedy said, adding that the MTV

job has “given me the chance to ex-
press myselfin a manner that no other
medium could.”

Kennedy has appeared on “The
Tonight Show with Jay Leno,” “Late
Night with Conan O’Brien,” “Politi-
cally Incorrect," “Later with Greg
Kinnear,” “John McLaughlin,"and
Howard Stem’s radio show.

Since her departure from MTV,
Kennedy has served as a commenta-
tor for the 1998 Winter Olympics in
Nagano, Japan. She has also modeled
in Jean-Paul Gaultier and Nicole Miller
runway shows. She has also recently
authored a book on women’s rights.

“I think it’s pretty remarkable that

...".".."

415*",
n* i
in

Photo courtesy of Kepler Associates, Inc.

Kennedy will dazzle Lee Chapel on Thursday during her free lecture.

someone who’s only 26 has done so
much," Nirody said.

Tickets will be distributed daily
from 11 a.m. - 2 p.m. in front of the
Coop. beginning Monday. Iftickets re-
main. general admission will begin
Thursday at 7:15 p.m. The public is
invited to attend a reception in the
Alumni House after the lecture.

Grantto study in Sweden

By Elianna Marziani
STAFF WRITER

Senior Kris Neville was recently
awarded a Fulbright Grant for a year’s
study abroad in Sweden.

The Fulbright Program was initi-
ated in 1946 in an effort to foster bet-
ter relations and understanding be-
tween people of the United States and
other countries.

Students who receive the grants are
chosen on the basis of their academic
records, language preparation in the
language of their host countries and
the feasibility and importance of their
proposed study projects.

The program receives most of its
funding from the U.S. Information
Agency, and each year it awards
grants to allow a limited number of stu-
dents to spend a year studying abroad.
Grants pay for tuition, room, board and

‘airfare. .

Neville applied for the grant last
fall. He proposed studying how the
Reformation changed church art and
decorations in Sweden and Denmark
during the 16th century.

The Protestant Reformation devel-
oped differently in those two coun-
tries, and Neville thinks that the ef-
fects might be found in the newly
emerging Protestant esthetic.

‘ Recent college graduates grantees
are usually expected to take regular
university classes. Neville’s tutor,
Anna Nilsen, invited him instead to
enroll in a graduate seminar that will
involve full-time research and weekly
meetings. He will study at Uppsala
University in Sweden, the oldest uni-
versity in Scandinavia and the eccle-
siastical center of Sweden.

Three W&L students, including
Neville, were recommended as candi-
dates for continued attention. The J.
William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship
Board makes the ﬁnal decision, and
Neville got word on Feb. 25 that he
was a grant recipient.

The announcement caught him by
surprise. “I couldn’t believe it.”
Neville said. “Because it came so early,
I thought it was a rejection. Nobody
has ever heard anything before April."

Neville is excited about the oppor-

tunity to study in Sweden. He took
one year off from college after his
sophomore year to do social work with
retarded adults in Sweden, so he is fa-

wt

Fulbright recipient Kris Neville and his cat, Karl

miliar with the country. He had planned
to do social work in southeastern
France next year until he learned that
the Fulbright Scholarship had come
through.

_ Neville, a history major, is most in-
terested in art history and is looking

forward to the opportunity to pursue
this interest abroad. After Sweden, he
may spend a summer in France, but
plans to return to school. “I do want

..”.,..«N .~r.r)1_jt> .\.~.rutIU3 0101“

to go to grad school,” Neville said.
After that, he is considering either
teaching or working in a museum. but
his plans are far from firm at this point.
However uncertain he is about the
distant future, Neville looks forward
to next year. “I couldn’t be happier.“

March 8, 1999

OPINION:

W&L1FE:
Fancy Dress 1999
SPORTS:

LAST WORD:
Mon1ca’s drrty slutery

@112 ‘ilting-tum ilﬁhi
Construction disturbs everybody

Baseball sweeps again, women’s lax wins

PAGE 2

PAGES 3-6

PAGE 7

PAGE 8

 

PAGE 2, 

OPWION

MARCH 8, 1999

Ladies and gentlemen, we’ve
reached the dregs. T.S. Eliot may think
that April is the cruelest month, but my
vote goes to March. February break is
over, spring break and the sweet release
of spring term are still weeks away.

People are now sick and tired of the
roommates they’ve put up with all year.
Every one of your roommate’s eccen-
tricities is an exercise in irritation; It
seems like everything they do — from
the way they make their bed to the noise
they make when they comb their hair—-
is being done for the express purpose
of pissing you off. Fights are breaking
out in dorm rooms and frat houses like

episode.

Many students’ March workload
can only be described as oppressive
and probably violate the Eighth Amend-
ment. Professors who have spent the
first half of the term goofing off are now
making up for it by assigning tests and
term papers almost daily.

And what fun is there to have in
March? FD is an expensive waste of
crepe paper that’ s more over-rated than
Quentin Tarantino’s movies. With rush
long over, fraternities just ain’t putting
the effort into parties that they used to,
and let’s face it, without frat parties this

STAFF EDITORIAL

some big collegiate “Jerry Springer” ’

campus is as dead as a doorknob. l’ve
still yet to hear anyone use the phrase
“hey, what SAB event is going on in
the GHQ tonight?” ‘

March Madness? Gee, sorry, I don’t
think the Generals are in contention this
year.

Road trips? Which thriving metropo-
lis shall we hit tonight, boys —
Staunton or Roanoke?

The fact is that there is no release
from the pain of March, but that’s okay.
You see, life can’t be all smiles and dai-
sies and casual sex. Without going
through bad times, we couldn’t have
any good times either. If there was no

Natty Light, would Guiness taste all
that special? Could Mozart’s musical
genius even be recognized were it not
for the Backstreet Boys and ’N Sync?
Could there be a “Citizen Kane” with-
out a “Police Academy VI?”

Yes, the carefree revelry of spring
term would not be possible were it not
for the hours in the library we’re put-
ting in now. And just remember that
no matter how bad things get, they
could always be worse —— we could be
going to VMI.

And hey, things aren’t all that bad.
At least we’ve still got the Responsi-
bility Symposium to look forward to!

Angus: Grade-A ﬁlm with grade-A message

 Off His Rocker
( Stephen Pesce ’01

 

I’m sick and tired of people making
fun of me when I tell them my favorite
movie. That’s right, sick and tired. “An-
gus” is more than just a movie about a
fat kid. It’s a movie about a fat kid and a
scrawny kid. But not just that either.
It’s an emotionally touching film that
warms the hearts of audiences of all
ages. And I don’t mean touching in a
bad way. I may not have much in the
line of intelligence, social skills or
sense of humor, but I know a little
something about the human soul. I’ve
got heart. I’ve got soul. I can even
play it on the piano. I can even coordi-
nate playing the low part while I whistle

the high part. (One learns cool tricks
when alone for hours at a time with no
one to talk to. At least that’s what I’ve
heard from some poor people who have
had that experience.)

Anyway, back to “Angus.” When
the bullies ﬂy Angus’s underwear on
the ﬂagpole, the immature high-schooler
in you laughs, then you realize the cruel
humiliation imposed upon millions of
adolescents across this country for vari-
ous reasons, none of which amount to
a hill of beans in light of the greater
meaning of human experience. Then
when Angus’s grandfather dies, you
can’t help but laugh. Well, that’s what
you do if you have suppressed and ig-
nored your emotions for so many years
that you have no clue what’s funny and
what’s sad anymore, if you keep your-

self locked in a human-proof emotional
box and allow yourself to be befriended
only by your pale dog. Otherwise, you
feel anger and pain. This intelligent,
funny, lovable young boy loses the only
person in the world he feels comfort-
able around. Why? Why did grandpa
have to die just when Angus needed
him the most? What kind of cruel world
do we live in?

l’ll be honest with you people. I
didn’t want to go see “Angus” either
when my friends decided to go see it in
the theater junior year of high school.
Six dollars that I probably had to bor-
row (nothing changes) for a movie
about a fat kid who gets made fun of
and gets the girl of his dreams in the
end? No, thank you. But “Angus” is
one of those timeless classics that

probes the human mind and makes you
think. I can honestly say that I a_rn not
the same person since watching that
touching ﬁlm.

Sometime I feel like Angus. When
judging me as a person, sometimes I
think people don’t look past the fact
that “Angus” is my favorite movie.
They see the guy with “bad taste in
movies” and dish out the according,
unbearably cruel persecution.

The answer to the age-old question
“Why can’t we all just get along?” rests
on the shelves of your local video store.
Don’t let the opportunity pass you by.
This film has the potential to alter the
entire course of human events, if ev-
eryone will dispose of their prejudices
and pre-conceived notions about the
“dumb film about a fat kid.”

Oh, how I long to use my alarm clock

As I sit here staring at the computer
screen, I do not know what to write. I
want to inform the readers. I want to
amuse the readers. I want to make the
readers think. How do I go about that?
Do I write about a socially responsible
topic like “Just Say No?” How about
the latest Monica news? Instead, I’ll dis-
cuss the issue that has been on the
minds of many Washington & Lee stu-
dents and every Woods Creek resident
— the sorority housing.

No, I’m not referring to the six arnaz—
ing houses that will be a place of fun
times for sorority girls in a little fewer
tjam two years. I’m talking about the
loud, annoying, uncalled for and dis-
ruptive construction that is now taking
place. This construction is necessary, I
know but I do not think it is needed in the
wee hours of the morning.

Every morning before I go to class, I

Friday, March 12, 8 p.m.
Friday, March 19, 8 p.m.
Friday, March 24, 8 p.m.

am woken up by the shrill, blaring beep-
beep-ing of the trucks backing up. Each
day I hear heavy pieces of machinery
pounding and breaking into what I as-
sume is solid rock.

Each day it reso- ’.I‘:"7I
nates throughout   
Woods Creek and ‘I  .3
each day it gets 
louder and louder. Each and every
night, this tormented soul goes to
sleep hoping not to be visited by the
mean, loud people in her dreams, only
to be woken up by it in a matter of
hours.

My first class is 9 a.m. and I am not
even allowed to wake up to my alarm
clock at 7:45. The even crazier thing is
that all of the commotion mysteriously
stops at about 10 a.m. Hmm  curious.
The site falls silent from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Perhaps it is because those are the peak

J

hours and the hottest hours of the day.
Wait a minute. It’ s still winter. The “hot
hours” are only about 50 degrees. Com-
mon sense would have the workers out

during the time

T  that is most com-
.. fortable weather

Stephanie Bl2II'1(D 01 wise and least
_—:_—_"-T"-—_ intrusive for

those around the construction site. I
guess that is a little too easy. Maybe
the construction is during most stu-
dents’ sleep time because it is more
economically efficient. Once again, I
doubt that is right because 10 a.m. to
2 pm. is the middle of a normal work-
ing day and the university intends to
pride itself on the new beautiful so-
rority houses and wouldn’t take short-
cuts on construction. Argh! I can’t ﬁg-
ure it out!

Why would people want to wake up

genius students who are the leaders of
tomorrow with the construction noise?
Is it a cruel joke? A horrible prank? Sadly,
the answer is “no.” The construction
caper, or CC as I will now call it, has
gone on for days, weeks and months.

The CC has gone on too long. Students,
this is our time to shine! We must unite!

We must stop the insanity! We need to
make this campus a peaceful, quiet

one once again! We need to be re’-"

turned to the world of alarm clocks as
the wake up tool! We need the option
of sleeping until noon, of waking up
at precisely 7:45 a.m. to the alarm ra-
dio and of pressing the beloved
snooze button every nine minutes for
an hour!

Okay, breathe. I’m sorry. You’ll have
to excuse me. I just get a little worked
up sometimes. You see, it’s been a while
since I’ve had a peaceful night’s sleep.

Student Activities’ Office March Comedy Series

GHQ
GHQ
GHQ

Robbie Prince
The Have Nots (shown above)
Randy Riggle

by Erica

Craig demonstrates that no amount of dance lessons
could compare to his F.D. “Vodka Dance.”

PHI BETA KAPPA
CONVOCATION

Séhedule of Classes

Fridav. March 12. 1999
A - 8:00 a.m. - 8:45 a.m.

B — 8:50 a.m. - 9:35 a.m.

C - 9:40 a.m. — 10:25 a.m.

D- 10:30 a.m.— 11:15 a.m.‘

E — 11:20 a.m. — 12:05 p.m.

CONVOCATION - 12:15 p.m. - 1:45 p.m.

F — 1:50 p.m.! 2:35 p.m.

G - 2:40 p.m. - 3:25 p.m.

H - 3:30 p.m. — 4:15 p.m.

I - 4:20 p.m. - 5:05 p.m.

J— 5:10 p.m. - 5:55 p.m.

Executive Editors

' News Editors

Opinion Editors
Sports Editor
Last Word Editor
Copy Editors

Photo Editors
Online Editor

Business Manager
Advertising Director

otherwise independent.

libel and obscenity.

W&Life Editors 1

Circulation Director

Clip: iting-tum lﬂlti

Tarah Grant
Hollister Hovey
Polly Doig

John Stewart
Ginger Phillips 0
Erica Prosser
Stephanie Bianco
Stephen Pesce
Frances Groberg
Kevin McManemin
Sarah Meldrum
Meredith Mlynar
Emily Barnes
Tom Wadlow

Jason Williams
Matt Lorber
Lionel Brown

The Ring—tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring—tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editors, but The Ring—tum Phi is

The Ring—tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 ofthe University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Lettersand columns do not reflect the opinion
of The Ring—tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court definitions of

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington. VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wluedu/-phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

G. LEYBURN
wiglAlIllSGTON & LEE

LIBRARY
NERSITY

LEX\NG§£)E&‘viA  

 

_

,l.....«:||.xI||! )III.. _.\I 5  i xvi!

mom _ mmmmm >oz<m

K 4. I ww K I .v_ R 4: .1 u ..n .1 .    , W. . ala  4 I» V L..... X . K W I

 

Q

FANCY DRE

3
l

Josh Solot
(’00) and
Matt
LaMotte
(’99) make a
dashing pair
(left). Alice
Cockrum
(’99) and
Kendra
Archer (’99)
show off their
Renaissance
‘and Spanish
styles (right).
“I was sur-
prised that so
few people
actually
dressed in
costumes, but
those that did
looked really
great,”
Archer said.

Sophomores Kristi Peterson,
Annabelle Wirth, Ryan Gielen
and Colin Fitzgibbons (right)
smile for the camera. “The
bands were a lot of fun,”
‘Peterson said. “I thought this
g-VFD was very tastefully done.”
1.Members and friends of the
‘Washington and Lee commu-
nity walked through a moat
lined with large boulders as
they made their way into the
Warner Center. Once inside
they passed through an en-
chanted forest before catching
glimpes of decorations like a
medieval church, a giant
dragon, a massive ﬁreplace and
castle‘walls. The realistic
decorations helped to create a
true Renaissance atmosphere
while the variety of bands
added a more modern touch.

Sophomore
Etan Levine
(left) cuts a . l . . ..  ..
rug with Warren Hedges (’00) dips Lisa Brennan (’99)
great pa” as they boogie the night away (above).

nache. The .. _. . .. . .   _ 

Kings of Erin Kraal (’99), Andy Thompson (’00) and James Sammons (’99) cugilo

Swing Per‘ _ while they enjoy the dance (above). “It was a great fourth and ﬁnal FD,” \

f0l‘m€d at  . . _ , I A , event. The months of effort that the Steering Committee put into this fyez.

this yearns = S , 4 A  in with smiling faces and happy dancers all night long.
event, and »- — » .

swing danc-
ing was a
popular way
to boogie
down with
dates. Wash-
ington and
Lee Univer-
sity offered
various
dance
classes in
the months
before the
event, so
students had
plenty of

opnorrnnny Juniors Krista Harkreader and Keith Rauch
to break in (above) are having tons of fun at Bal

rnelr dancing Masque. “The ball was great,” Harkreader
Snnes before said. “You could really tell that a lot of work
Fancy Dress- was put into it.”

pp   @112 ﬁling-Eum lﬂhi
I 4,

...—-.-...~_..v..~.......t__§*..... :-s. M ~.. .. .. _ V<)“<“‘ _T____, ___._,.

oseiwith a laugh
Kraal said of the
' .-‘dance paid off

1999

Seni ‘ Anthony

festive feathers and bright colors to celebrate the
resurrection of Le Bal Masqué as the FD theme, 72

Senior Ben
Middendorf
playfully fends
off fellow
seniors
Megan
Carleton,
Elizabeth
Spencer and
Christine
Burghardt
(left). “I had
more fun at
this FD than
ever before,”
Spencer said.
Leed
Silverﬁeld
(’99) and
Jennifer Frost
(’99) have a
fabulous time
at the social
event of the
year (right).

2 

Dvarskas (above) is a vision in

years after the original Bal Masqué.

Gwendolyn Perrilliat (’99) puzzles over her masked man
(above). Masked characters of every description peopled the
dance, making it a mysterious and fun-ﬁlled affair.

Maciej -
Golubiewski
(’99) gets
reeled in by
his date
(left). While
many party-
goers de-
cided to
wear their
formal wear
instead of the
suggested
Renaissance
style cos-
tumes, wild
masks and
colorful
feather boas
dominated
the dance
scene.

Professor Domnica
Radulescu (above) struts her
stuff at the ball. “As a profes-
sor, it was really fun to see
the students having so much
fun,” she said. “The ball was
very nice, particularly be-
cause of the colorful and
lively costumes.” Kate
Mobley (’02) and Slade
Broom (’02) make a charming
couple on thedance ﬂoor (left).
“I liked the decorations, but
the best part was the bands,”
Mobley said. Court jester
Nate Tencza (’99) gets into
the swing of things (right). “I
had the most fun at FD I’ve
ever had,” he said. “The
whole spirit of everyone was
the best I’ve seen at any big
event here.”

.;....\....

other’s eyes as they dance into the night. Fancy Dress is
traditionally a great event for couples and singles alike;
and both old loves and new attractions can blossom iii“ 
such a festive. beautiful environment. I

»"i‘2I'éx!i‘i’N*i'd‘ai.'s'. . .9“. . . - . - . . . .. to.

Jamie Klista (’99) and his dat (above) gazeinto 

~.

«",« '.   ‘  " ~ - ‘- 1" <7-6(.‘x:.#i
~_ar‘,\/c“~'v,.'-w‘~*,g<:)¢v_aV;1g>v?<r»!;%A£;w+>-yr-urnto-coats:-ranch-«cow-pgyauuwvyr-..p¢§‘ivtvu

 
 

@112 King-tum lﬂhi

FANCY DRESS BALL 1999 ;

THE TRADITION CONTINUES...

1908 Fancy Dress

couldn ‘I come because

 
 

Ralph Wiegardtsaia': “Don ’t

1990 Gatsby’s Great Gala

)1
1907 Bal Masque that women from chairman hada quite a dif- A llama rentedfrom the Natural Bridge Zoo escapedfrom the
Librarian Annie Jo White used $42 in leftover theater funds to Sweet Brier College Wen’ ‘heme-' Pia)’i70.V- The dance-
create theﬁrst FD ball. The Feb. 9, l907iss'ue ofThe Ring-tum (usually the most party room was decorated 1987 The Dark Continent ‘P
Phi announce the upcoming "Bal Masque " on Tuesday, Feb. 12. popular among W&L Wiih Pi0yi70,VP0’0Ph€"naii<1-' The Minority Students /1SSOCiati0n boycotted the ball.

_ It promised an "affair... exceptionally pretty and brilliant... and men) couldn't attend rabbits. balloons and free 1988 Reconciliation Ball of 1965

quite an innovation to Lexington society. ” The crowd danced to the dance because of souvenirs. Each escort was 1989 An Evening Excursion on the Orient Express
the sounds of the VM] orchestra, who ended their set with “Home a diphtheria quaran- asked to submit a photo of An Evening Excursion was the most expensive Fancy Dress
Sweet Home” a; 2 ajm_ Thea-e was class }he ngxl day tine; Hollins women his date,‘ contest chairman ever; it cost over $100,000. ‘ X

1909 Fhhcy Dress ofexams hide your bunny under a 1991 A Royal Festival at King Arthur’s Court
From [909 to 19l4_ lhe Fancy Dress Ball; were held on u skallng 1928 Bookland bushel, enter her in the Play- At 9p.m. the night ofthe ball, the FD committee realized that it
- rink on Main Stregt. ' 1929 1001 Nights mate contest.’ ” Playboy hadpurchased 700 pounds ofice, and 450 liters ofCoke, but
1910 Bal Masque 1930 Spanish Fiesta publisher Hugh Hefner hadforgotten to getcups. A committee member was dispatched )
1911 Bal Masque 1931 Robin Hood called during the party to to East Lex to purchase 4,000 cups. A record 3,500 people
i 1912 Colonial America 1932 Colonial Ball . nameawinner. attendedthe ball.
< 1913 B31 Masque 1933 Ball of the 1964 Mardi Gras 1992 A Return Voyage to the Age ofExploration
»: 1914 B31 Masque Grandees 1965 Mississippi Riverboat 1993 Celebrating the Silver Screen
1915 (jo10n1a1 America 1934 Coronation of 1966 Derby Day Ball 1994 A Magical Carpet Ride 4 ‘A
,~ 1916 Court ofLouis XIV Emperor'Alexander In the election for Fancy Magical Carpet Ride featured alive, photogenic camel from the
1917 B31 Masque III Dress chairman, senior Joe Natural Bridge Zoo. The camel was led away soon after he be-
, 1918 Europe and Columbia: The Gem of the Ocean 1935 Congress of Miller was opposed only by came angry and started spitting on people. The Ring-tum Phi

: 1919 A Midsummer Nightis Dream Vienna Fritz, a white German shep- photographer captured a shot of a male ballgoer seductively
‘, 1920 Bookhmd ‘ _ The Associated Press herd and mascot of the Phi dancing with a team of middle-aged belly dancers.
A Ring-tum Phi reporter carefully chose the right words to de- distributed pictures of ' EP h0“s€- F’iiZg0i 0n€'f0i‘ih 1995 Un¢ S01l'e€ Pafisienne

of the votes in the race.
1967 Opening Night
1968 High Society

An article in The Washing-
ton Post said the Fancy
Dress Balls in the late 1960s
used to center on the “fig-

Ballgoers were enchanted with the recreation of Monet 's garden

at Greury. The FD committee constructed a real-life sitting gar-

den complete with a walk-over bridge. After the ball, lucky stu-
dents absconded with fistfuls of lilacs, roses and tulips. i
1996 A Mad Tea Party ‘
1997 Under the Big Top

The Under the Big Top FD memorbilia package included two t-

the ball via its new
wire-photo service.
Ballgoers received a
__commerqtive picture
frame with the
university 's emblem.
1936 Queen Eliza-

' scribe the night: "The orchestra struck up spirited march. Then,

burst in the ardent‘;-evelry, with plume, tiara, and all rich array.
 The music, sighing like a ‘God in pain ’ went into every heart until
- I the people, swaying in unison as the melody throbbed, saw unroll
3 a figure of unusual complication and beauty. ”
.\ 1921 The Chinese Court of Chu Chin Chow
. 9 1922 The Scottish Highlands 1

., Evergreen trees decorated 1922 ’s ball.’ The Phi reported, "The beth and the Earl of ure, ” a dance in which shirts, two shot glasses, two posters and two boxes of Cracker
,‘ moslnolublepurt ofthe whole ‘ca,~n,'vul'was the unusually beau- Essex I couples formed the shape of Jacks. FD tickets were the “hidden surprise” inside the spe-
tifulgirls who throngedto Lexington Such a type ofﬁamininity 1937 Italian Re- the W“-shihgi0h and Lee Ciaii}"PaCkag9d Cracker Jacks h0x€s- 9
is peculiar only to certain particularly favored corners of the naissance UniV9’‘sii3’ 0957- 1998 Anything G095? Fialipersv Flight and -1311 A" Night
 inter-collegiate world.” The Fancy Dress Ball Heather MacDonald 901 gives Greg Nousa :00 a big 1969 1n3“g“T31 3311 1999 L9 1331 Masque
"j 1923 Le Bal des Operas committee set aside h M D 1d d N t t d. t 1970 The Allman Broth-
1924 My Lady ofthe Fan $350 to decorate a smooc ,' ac 0na_ an ou_s_t_t wen _0 Inner a 9'5 (Concert 0n1ya n0 11311) ,
g The 1924 ball was theﬁrst one under the control ofa President “Snwking "00’n 1’ f0’ Franco S and partied at the F111 cocktall party before 1971 N0 F3n¢y Dress 11‘
 elected by the studentbody. the 1937 ball. the ball. 1972 Sn3'n3'n3 (Concert
2 1925 Romance of the Dance 1938 C1|3l‘1eSt0na °n1y- n0 13311)
Romance ofthe Dance celebrated the evolution ofdanceﬁrom S.C.: On the Eve of Secession 1973 3111)’ 1’Te5t0n (Concert Oniys n0 13311)
ancient times to FD CreatorAnnie Jo White told The Ring-tum Phi that she thought 1974 Mardi G735 _
9 modern age, FD was "getting to be too much ofapublic affair now It used Tickeis Wei’? $4f0"f“ii€’hiiy members and $7f0’ h0h’f"ai€"' 9

Two orchestras to be almost aprivate dance, but now anyone can get in. " hit)’ siudehis Duiihg the haiiv shidenis dumpedapiicher Ufbeeh

performed on 1939 Knights of the Golden Horseshoe 0n University Pi‘€siii€niR0h‘—’i’iH"nii,V-

the Fancy Juniors and seniors were admitted to the main danceﬂoor, and 1975 1n the M0011 1941

Dress floor for sophomores and freshmen were admitted to the balcony. Specta- 1976 11“ Way for 11011yW°°‘1i

theﬁst time. tors were also admitted to the balconyfor $1 per person. 1977 P3SSP0|‘t t0 Paris n
1926 1940 Kentucky Derby 1973 Glories Of Egypt

331 Beanx 1941 King Rex and his Court at Mardi Gras The ball was held in Evans Dining Hall and the University

A115 1942 A Night at the Monte Carlo Casino Center. Aja2zpianistplayca' in the Executive Committee room.

Following the 1943 American spirit John-Ivan Palmer, an extra—sensory preception expert, set up

1926 hall, The 1944-19.16 F1) suspended because ofww 1] shop on the second level ofthe University Center. 7
Ring-tum Phi 1947 Carnival at Rio 1979 A Taste of the Big Apple

urgeda change 1948 Hampton Court under Charles Ballgoers received commemorative coins with the skyline of

in Fancy Dress 1949 George WaShington’s Birthday Ball New York on one side and the logo of"Taste ofthe Big Apple ”

.  policy "Due to 1950 King Arthur’s Court on the other. The day after the ball the ﬁreshman class spon-
' the crowded 1951 Carmen sored its annual grade party. *

c o n di t i o n s A bullfighting arena was constructed on the dancefloor. 1980 Monopoly: A SW0" ATOUFN1 the B08|'d

which will exist 1952 The works of Shakespeare An editorial in The Ring-tum Phi on the 1980 Fancy Dress Ball

on the floor, it 1953 The Court of King Louis XVI saidtickets were selling on the black marketfor $40 a couple.

has been sug_ 1954 King Rex and His Court at Mardi Gras Tickets to the ball were limited because, according to cityﬁre

gesled [hat the 1955 An odyssey Through Empires code, only 2,500people couldﬁt in the building. A news article V
‘Charleston, ’ 1956 The wizard of oz reported that a woman from Hollins had her $10,000 mink '
which has been 1957 Mozarﬁs Don Giovanni coat stolenfrom the coat room, but the Lexington police soon

banned at sev- 1958 Gilbert and ‘Sullivan at Buckingham Palace t‘eC0VeP‘edit~ ‘ Adams Greenw0od_Ericksen 901 and Kristen

eral southern 1959 Golden Jubilee (50th Anniversary) 1931 on Broadway H d ,01 . . th I] “T. C

Schools, be 1,-,,,_ 1960 The Evolution of Man 1982 A Diamond Jubilee (75th Anniversary) 313’ _ swing in e sin“ _ gy_n‘- _ “n 0;‘ p

_ itedas much as The exams schedule ofHollins CollegepreventedHollins women The M0 sP0iiighis Outside ihe 8y”? P"0inPi€d Claims Of UFO was dancing next to us and ﬂlppmg 1115 dates
; possible, from attending the ball. The Ring-tum Phi’s Hollins c0rrespon~ sightings from Lexington residents. Ericksen said. “A couple next f0 them tried
1 . 1927 Carnival dent wrote in her column: “Have a drinkfor us. ” 1983 A“ E"‘?“_'"g a'°"g the Mississippi River the same thing. Instead of ﬂipping his date
’. of Venice 1961 Shakespeare in the Court 1934 L0St Cities 01 G01d . ,
., . I 1 _g  The Ringmlm 1962 High Society 1985 The Mink Dynasty backwards like he s supposed to, the guy
;. Nick Stawasz ’01 and date get Phi reported 1963 American Civil war Centennial MinkDynasty featured in-e exotic birds ﬂipped her forwards — right onto her butt. We 5
K: ready to swing. The cocktailparty held before the ball in honor ofFancy Dress’ 1986 Carnival: A Night in Rio saw lots of other people take diggers, too.”
’ Y
, Southern Inn East Lexington Store
7 ° 0
:- 37S. Main St. 2 Old Buena Vista Rd.
463-3612 463-3614 a
9 . o
Spanky s Restaurant Natural Bridge ,
d D 1'
all 9 lcafessen Conference Center
110 S. Jefferson St. P.O. Box 57
I I
C
463-3333 Natural Bridge 24578
gm Harris Teeter 9*
I o
a 422 E- Nelson St. Washington Street Purveyors
;i 464-3309 9 E. Washington St. ..
I ~ O
; University Cleaners
V.
O
1260 Zollman M111 Rd. 11 Palazzo
‘ 463-3622 24 N. Main St.
’     464-5800 "
C O .
Aivmnenms U PP LEMEN l
102 W. Washington St. . -   The Palms  4
463-5383 S P O N S O R S 101 W. Nelson St.
7‘

 

MARCH 8, 1999

  S

PO

@112 iﬂinig-tum iﬂlii

Baseball pounds
double-header

By Brendan Harrington
SPORTS WRITER

Freezing cold temperatures and a bone-chilling breeze
weren’t enough to cool off the Generals’ scorching bats
on Sunday afternoon at Smith ﬁeld.

Washington and Lee scored 30 runs and pounded out
29 hits in a double-header sweep of Washington and
Jefferson. The Generals won the ﬁrst game 17-2 with the
help of 11 runs in the bottom of the sixth inning. In the
second game, E.J. Murphy belted two three-run homers
over the center ﬁeld fence to lead W&L to a 13-2 victory.

“I feel like we can beat anyone right now,” said senior
second baseman Patrick Hall, who went 4-5 in the double-
header and had 3 RBI’s and ﬁve runs scored. “It’s good to
see the bats going again.”

The Generals entered the game with a team batting av-
erage of only .204, but after Sunday’s hit parade they raised
it to .275, ajump of71 points.

“We’re deﬁnitely hitting the ball better than we were a
week ago,” W&L head coach Jeff Stickley said. “But we
caught them on their third double header in three days, so

they didn’t have much pitching left.”
I The Presidents lost both games of a double header at.

Guilford on Friday, the ﬁrst time the team had been outside
all year. They split a double header with Greensboro Col-
lege on Saturday before traveling to Lexington.

“They were worn down and they didn’t have much left
in their bullpen,” Hall added.

Sunday afternoon also marked the homecoming of
President’s ﬁrst baseman Ryan Walsh, the son of W&L
athletic director Michael Walsh.

“It was a thrill for my wife and I to see our son play
baseball in Lexington,” said Michael.

Ryan started at ﬁrst-base for Washington & Jefferson
in the ﬁrst game and went 0-3. Ryan’s father, who weath-
ered the cold with his wife Jean, faced a test of loyalties.

“I was hoping the Generals would win two games and
that Ryan would get a hit,” Michael said. “I went one for
two, and I’ll take it.”

In the ﬁrst game, the President’s jumped out to a 1-0
lead in the top of the ﬁrst inning, but the Generals scored
two in the bottom of the ﬁrst and never looked back In the
1 1-run sixth inning, the Generals had ten strraight hits and
13 straight batters reached base, all with no outs.

Hall and junior center ﬁelder Chris Stakem each went 3-
3 and junior left ﬁelder Schuyler Marshall went 3-4. Hall
and Marshall each had 3 RBI’s and Stakem had two. Bob
Weston got the win to go to 4-0 on the season. So far this

..season,.ll/estonhaspitchedziinnings.and..hasonlygiven

up three earned runs. Sophomore relief pitcher Bill Christ
threw three scoreless innings to pick up the save.

In the second game, Murphy’s two homers highlighted
another offensive explosion, as this time the Generals
pounded out 10 hits. Junior ﬁrst baseman Russell Wrenn
went 2 forI3 with 3 RBI’s. Sophomore pitcher David Sigler
pitched all ﬁve innings and earned the victory to go to 2-1
on the season. The game was called after 4.5 innings due

3,,
F?
I

to the extreme cold.

“We’ve got some good pitching lately and We’re tight
defensively,” Hall said. “It’s like the old cliche ——&itching
and defense wins ballgames." _ I ,

The game also settled the long heated debate of who

. Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
Senior pitcher Bob Weston winds up during the Washington and Jefferson game on Sunday.

would win the battle of: Thomas Jefferson versus Robert
E. Lee. Both schools are named after George Washington,
but differ in the second part of their name.

On this day, General Lee showed no mercy in the pur-
suit of life, liberty, and two convincing victories.

Score by innings
Game 1

1001) x
100 0

W&L 212
W&J 100

Men’s, women’s tennis on Winning track

By Steele Cooper

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s
tennis team continued their domina-
tion of the ODACS with decisive vic-
tories over Virginia Wesleyan on Mon-
day and Hollins College on Wednes-
day. The Generals won both.of the
match ups with 9-0 scores.

Monday, the singles winners for
the Generals were senior Brook
Hartzell, sophomore Christina

Campbell, sophomore Anne Castello.
sophomore Jennifer Strawbridge,
sophomore Laura Schramm, and
sophomore Emily Ramey.

Winners in doubles matches were
the teams of Haitzell/freshman Melissa
Hartley, freshman Sallie Gray Strang/I
freshman Manning Willard, and
Castello/sophomore Tori Hayes.

Each ofthe matches were won in
straight sets for the Generals, and
Virginia Wesleyan only managed to
take a total of three games from

W&L on the day.

The story was strikingly similar on
Wednesday when W&L faced Hollins
College. Helping the Generals to another
9-0 ODAC sweep were senior Erin
Eggers, Willard, Castello, Strang, Hayes,
and sophomore Virginia Brumby.

Doubles winners were Eggers/Hayes,
Strang/Willard, and Castello/Brumby.

The men also continued their win- .

ning ways, defeating Guilford on Sat-
urday by a score of 6-1. Wins were
posted by sophomore Kelly Radford,

senior Scott Babka, freshman Rhys
James, senior Dave Lehman, and fresh-
man Andrew Roberts in singles, and
senior Dale Pretila/Babka, Radford/
Roberts, and James/senior Tom
Washbum in doubles.

The Generals are not resting on
their recent laurels. The women’s team
will face Kenyon College, one of their

big rivals on the national stage, on -

Friday, March 14 starting at 3:30 p.m.
The men will face Hampden-Sydney
on Thursday at 3 p.m.

Men’s lax
falls 9-8 to
DIH champs

Despite loss, Generals opti-
mistic about their abilities

By Tod Williams

SPORTS WRITER

The men’s lacrosse team fell to 1-1 on Saturday af-
ter losing to defending national champions Washing-
ton College.

The 9-8 loss came after the Generals let an early 3-0 lead
slip away as well as an 8-6 lead in the second half.

Though Washington and Lee led early in the ﬁrst half,

(6

We’re really ﬁred
up. We can play
with anyone in the

 —country‘f  I

the Shoremen

fought back
and tied the
game at 5-5 by
the half. The
Generals then
n u t sec oIr e (1
Washington
College 3-1 to
I begin the
second half,
— Senior Colin Dougherty but the
S h o r e m e n
then scored
the game’s ﬁnal three goals to net the win.

Sophomore midfielder Matt Dugan and junior
attackman Chris Brown led the team as they combined for
six General goals. Colin Dougherty topped the team with
two assists. I .

Dougherty said the loss came at the Generals’ own
hands. “We deﬁnitely had our chances. We hung in there,”
he said. Dougherty said the Generals didn’t possess the
ball well consistently, and Washington also capitalized for
several extra-man goals.

“We blew it, not as much as they beat us,” he said of
the Generals’ two lost leads.

The Generals next matchup will come when they travel
to Gettysburg College next Saturday at 1 p.m.

Dougherty said, “We’re really ﬁred up now after play-
ing well against the national champions. We can play with
anyone in the country.”   II III II II I

FORA
SPRING BREAK  

FROM $159 PER wE£i¢*

D POOLS -1 lINDOOR.l:EATED Poof
. HUGE BEACH ‘FRONT HOT TUB '

LAZY RIVER RIDE 1- SUITES UP TO 10 PERSONS
SAILBOATS ‘— TII<I BEACH BAR ' JET SKIS * PARASAILS

“HOME OF THE WORLD'S LONGEST KEG PARTY"
FREE DRAFT BEERALI. WEEK LONG-(ALL FOR INFO!
1-800-488-8828

www.sandpipcrl)eacon.coin (‘rates per person)
17-103IRONTl-iEACl-I ROAD»

P/\N/\/\\/-\ CITY 1’-EACH, FL 32413

Women’s lax
loses opener

By Frances Groberg

SPORTS EDITOR

While most people were swinging the night away at
Fancy Dress, the women’s lacrosse team was on its way to

Ohio to play Denison in their season opener.

Unfortunately, the trip was unsuccessful. Denison de- I     - /, ,_ A ' II’ "I 7
feated Washington and Lee by a score of 12-6, forcing the I 3 I I  ‘ ’
Generals to go 0-1. I‘:
“We just didn’t play well enough long enough,” V p _ _ _ _ -
Head Coach Jan Hathorn said. “Denison came ready W   . I j T  i.-,  A V. ____'____,_._(i -~ “"”"'
to lay.” Junior captain Katherine Riddle agreed. “Ijust . C . . A ,   I ‘ II ’_   6 ‘_
hoge this can serve as a sprinboard for us,” she said. "  I, I I. , 2.  .  _ an Get A  Equ pP_d___,,__.7--—--r »--‘>»-‘'

The Big Red scored the ﬁrst two goals of the game, ‘ _ I » L   ~ .ff*$i»'« ' ‘ I
gaining a lead they would never relinquish. They led the V , » -.’¥-.2 I I
Generals 5-2 at halftime en route to thier victory. 9" at _

Six different Generals scored goals for W&L, includ- ,. I  6%.»
ing Riddle, freshman Eloise Priest, sophomore Liz,Borges, I’ H ,  3 3,.
so homore Caroline Gee, freshman Courtenay Fisher, and  I ""I‘°‘>r
frepshman Julie Carskadon. In goal,junior Ginny Jemigan _.T0y0'E 9 KY9” . ,
posted 14 saves on the day. Katie Blowers of Denison led I 0)/Ct Dealer‘ _
all scorers with four for the Big Red. * Vmgfba #0“ comparison of ‘99 

usometimes you need hgames like that to see at what ‘ . Corolla equ eql with options pggkag , . ; 6..
level you’re playing,” Hat om said. com argbl , ui 98'C6f61'a,'Corolla I , ~ - —' '

The Generals play Hollins today in their home opener at t is ihleI‘l;est)sI gPIcI:;i: RE-’CAR  Y rwwiajor) ....s.._-.. _.

worldwide {'%’l:gl£’€S . «.—-(No—Matter-Wha -- O“
‘."__'_’__..,v———”""'f'- ~ . - '
I . . , ~

: ' ,.
/ '-"’. 2. :'

the Liberty Hall ﬁelds beginning at 4:30 p.m. The game,
originally scheduled for last Wednesday, was postponed
because of inclement weather.

~r'’’’’'‘'“I'’'_

_. ......... ~ --~ '

 

PAGE 8

Humor Page

LAST ‘WORD

MARCH 8, 1999

“She’s All That” good for a laf

By Stephen Pesce
Opinion Page Editor

 

 

Saturday night, yep, Saturday
night of PD weekend, I went to see
“She’s All That,” a truly magniﬁcent
performance that kept me waiting for
the next bit of writing genius. I’ve seen
the classics of all genres (“Clueless,”

“Scream,” “Scream ll,” “Booty Call,”
“Don’t Be a Menace to South Central
while Drinking Your Juice in the
Hood,” “Stop or My Mom Will
Shoot,” “Striptease”) and I can hon-
estly say that this one ranks up there
with any one of them. ‘
A heart-wanning story of self-dis-
covery, the film reaches out to the All-
American who struggles to balance
the expectations of those around him
and his own personal desires. The
ﬁlm also touches the soul of the self-
deprecating spazoid who struggles to

ﬁnd inner peace and enjoyment in a
world wrought with pain and suffering.
Though-these two troubled characters
meet only through the terms of an ill-
conceived bet, they ﬁnd comfort and
understanding in one another.

As for the supporting actors and
actresses, there was really little to do.
Zach (Freddie Prinze, Jr.) and Laney
(Rachael Leigh Cook) carried the show
with a little help from Laney’s little
brother Simon, played by Kieran Culkin.

From the pube—eating incident to the
uncannily realistic choreography at the

By Kevin McManemin

EDITOR AND MORAL CENTER

When Monica Lewinsky appeared
on national television in a tell-all in-
terview with Barbara Walters last
week, cries of delight went up from
humor writers everywhere. Every-
where, that is, but here in the ofﬁces
of The Last Ward. T

We at The Last Word are above
Monica jokes. We feel that Monica
jokes are cheap, seedy and anti-
thetical to the very high standards of
journalistic integrity and excellence
we’ve always rigidly adhered to. We
believe we have a contract with our
readers to provide only wholesome,
morally enriching fare.

This tale of sordid passion, pure,
naked lust, rampaging hormones and
raw, depraved, ungodly animal sex has
no place within the pages of our pa-
per. So, the President has been get-
ting blowjobs from a stupid bimbo in-
tern, lied about it under oath and

brought shame and embarrassment
to the nation — you won’t hear
about it from us. We feel that this is
nobody’s business but Clinton’s,
and after all, can’t he remain a pri-
vate man in a public oriﬁce. . . err. . .

« ofﬁce? Besides, there is certainly
nothing funny about this situation,
apart, of course, from the sheer hu-
man comedy of it all.

Many publications feel it is okay
to divulge the most intimate details
of the relationship, printing lewd
tales about the number of times she
sucked him dry, their masturbatory
phone sex sessions and the time he
shoved a cigar up her vagina, pulled
it out and declared it ‘fsmells good.”
Dirty stories like these have NO
PLACE in a respectable publication
and you certainly won’t read any-
thing like that in The Last Word. lt’s
simple pandering to the lowest com-
mon denominator and we refuse to
stoop to that level.

Remember, we must not judge
others. It is not for us to call Monica

Editorial: Monica’s dirty
sluttery is her business

a ﬁlthy little whore, or pronounce the
Clinton Presidency an exercise in in-
competence.

We strongly object to
judgementalism in The Last Word,
just as weobject to laboring the point,
beating a dead horse, running a gag
into the ground and making a humor
piece stretch on far too long when
the audience has gotten the point
two paragraphs ago. Say what you
meanand get on with it, we always
say. Don’t ramble. Don’t drone on
and on and on and on and on. Don’t
repeat yourself. Always strive to
keep things as compact, concise,
succinct and terse as you possibly
can. Don’t repeat yourself.

Our humor must be enjoyed by
all, and offending some of our read-
ers with foul language and content
is not a chance we’re willing to take.
That’s why you’ ll never read a word
about the Monica Lewinsky scandal
in The Last Word.

Dear reader, you have my word of
honor. '

36'
U

   

 

Thinking of
  Summer
Employment
Opportunities?

Special Programs
Resident Assistants
June I5-Aug. 3, 1999

The Ofﬁce of Special Pro-
grams employs ﬁve W&L
students to serve as Resident
Assistants for a wide variety
of Special Programs includ-
ing Alumni
Elderhostel and adult confer-
ences. Duties include house-
keeping, attending all meals
with guests, bar receptions
and shuttle driving. An out-
going personality is a must.
Application deadline is
March 31, 1999.

For more information,
please contact the Ofﬁce of
Special Programs, Howard
House, 463-8723.

W

Colleges,

Ride the fast track
through Europe

(heal; ttchels. Great e.¢lv\<e.
A/we People.

London, $223
Amsterdam $292
Rome $350
Barcelona $372

 

Fans an Iron Wnmngton DC. each way band
on I RT purehun. Faru do not Inelude bill},
which can ton! between $3 and S80.|n:'l Slﬂdtnl
ID my be rIquimd.Fuu an valid hr departures
In April and an subject to damp. Rurrlulonx
apply. Call for our low domutlc Ian: and farm to

other world wldc demnatlom.

Don‘: lorgut to order yuur Eurallpau!

mlﬁavel ,,__

CIEE: Council on International
Educational Exchange

l-800-2Counci|

' Parents’ IIISGOIIIII

- Ilewlv Renovated

Econo
Lodge

540-463-1311

- Free HBO with Itemote
- no Smoking Rooms

' H88 continental Brealttast

    

SPRING
BREAK
BEACHES

Daytona, Panama City, Padre,
Miami, Cancun, Jamaica,
Bahamas, etc.

Best hotels, prices, parties.
Browse www.icpt.com. Reps
earn cash, free trips. Call
Inter-Campus 1-800-327-6013

prom, the plot
was more pre-
dictable than the
end ofa Scooby—
Doo episode.
But hey, I like
Scooby—Doo.
W a t c h i n g
Shaggy and the
Scoobs scarf
down a few large
pizzas’ always
warms this senti-
mental heart. I
recommend the
film to anyone
who wants to be
entertained for an
hour and a half.

Looking for
artistic talent
and profound in-
ner meaning?
Then I suggest
you go rent “An-
gus.”

Here’s the poster to “She’s All That” included
for the sole purpose of taking up space.

 

Here’s a memorable scene from “She’s All That.” You
know, this movie really doesn’t look very good to me. Then
again I’m just a caption writer, what do I know. Seriously,
though, how good could a movie called “She’s All That”
be?l3I’ll bet this movie has lots of “attitude.” I’ll bet it uses
a lot of “hip” lingo to try to relate to the kiddies. Back in
my day we didn’t neec “attitude.” We had a thing called
“plot.” Oh, never mind. -

 

TAX ‘ADV‘ANiT'AG,‘ED SOLUTIONS

name ma mitiai

Hell Week
Etiquette
Tips

Because we at W&L are a com-
munity of gentlemen, we must al-
ways be mindful of the rules of
proper etiquette and decorum. Just
because Hell Week is upon us is no
reason to forget our manners. In an
effort to make sure civility and dig-
nity will have a place in this Hell
Week, The Last Word has asked in-
temationally renowned etiquette ex-
pert Lady Prunella Prudes to write a
column on the dos and don’ts of
Hell Week . . . err, sorry . . {Heck
Week etiquette.

1) There is a right way and a
wrong way to eatyour own vomit.
Remember ~— elbows off the table!
No slouching! Use a fork or spoon
— vomit is not ﬁnger food!

2) Remember your manners! Al-
ways say “Thank you sir, may I
please have another” when being
paddled. “Gimme another,” “more,”
or “hit it ‘til it bleeds” will not do!

3) Just because you’ve been up
all night getting hazed like a Marine
is no reason not to look your best!
Always give yourself a shave and a
shower before going off to class.
Shampoo that urine out of your hair,
and cover up any bruises or cuts!

4) When chugging beer, grain,
motor oil, etc., take special care not
to. spill! Wear a bib and keep your
shirt dry! Drunkenness is never an
excuse for sloppinessl

5) Remember formal titles!
Pledges should refer to initiated
brothers as “Mr. Pledgemaster, sir.”
Brothers should refer to pledges as
“you worthless f* **ing maggot” or
“you stupid f"‘**ing retard.”

6) If your southern fratforces
you to copulate with a sheep, be a
gentleman! Take the sheep out to a
nice‘ restaurant and wine and dine
her. After the deed is done, be sure
to call the next day!

FROM

     

   

TIAA-CR1-LF

 

UNFORTUNATELY,

THIS IS WHERE PEOPLE ARE

ver_y year, a lot of people make a
huge mistake on their taxes. harder for you.
They wind up sending Uncle Sam
money they could be saving for
retirement. 1

Fortunately, that's a mistake you
can avoid with SRAS -—tax-deferred
annuities from TIAA—CREF. SRAs not
only ease your current tax bite, they
offer an easy way to build retirement
income——especially for the "extras"
that your pension and Social Security
benefits may not cover. Because your
contributions are made in pretax
dollars, you pay less in taxes now. And

since earnings on your SRAS are tax

www.tiaa-cref.org

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.“

PUTTING TOO MANY RETIREMENT DOLLARS.

deferred, your money works even

Today, we offer other before- and
after-tax financial solutions, including
IRAS and mutual funds. They're
backed by the same investment exper-
tise, low expenses, and personal
service that have made TIAA-CREF
the choice of America's educational and
research community.

Why write off the chance for a
more rewarding retirement? Stop by
your benefits office or call us at
1 800 842-2776 and find out how
TIAA-CREF SRAS can help you enjoy
happier returns.

TIAA-CREE Individual and lnslitunonal Services, lnc.. distributes CREF certificates and interests in the TIAA Real Estate Account. For more complete information. including
charges and expenses. call 1 800 842-2733. ext. 5509. for CREI’ and TIAA Real Fatatc Account prospectuses. Read them carefully beforeyou invest or send money.

12/98

it

 

