Washington and Lee University
VOLUME 101, NUMBER 2

Ultra ‘tiling-tum lﬁlii

Bulk Rate
US Postage
PAID
Permit No. 7
Lexington. Va.

Monday
SEPTEMBER 21, 1998

Sorority houses
set for fall 2000  

Hill unveils new
housing plans

BY POLLY DOIG
News EDITOR

It took Washington and Lee Uni-
versity 237 years to decide that co-
education was the way to go.

Thirteen years later, with females
now making up 45 percent of the stu-
dent body, the decision to build so-
rority houses has been made, and the
plans unveiled. The drawings have
been presented to the Lexington Plan-
ning Commission, who will take action
at its next meeting on Sept. 24.

When W&L’s master plan was
given approval last spring, it was with
the understanding that the sorority
houses would be constructed simul-
taneously with the planned parking
deck and pedestrian bridge.

However, both the parking deck»

and the pedestrian bridge are be-
hind schedule, so W&L decided to
go ahead with the sorority houses.
W&L officials hope to have the
houses open by the fall of 2000.
Designed in the style of the Colon-
nade, the ﬁve houses will be located
on the backside of campus, to the west
of Woods Creek. There is space for an

additional house, should the need arise.

Each house has space for 20 girls,
therefore increasing overall university
housing by 100 beds. According to
Dean of Students David Howison, this
will expand the campus housing avail-
able to upperclassmen, as most sorori-
ties mandate that their officers live in
the houses. .

“Though we’ve been fortunate in
that everyone who wanted housing
has gotten it, this will certainly increase
accessibility,” Howison said.

Reaction from the sorority commu-
nity to the house plans is extremely
positive.

“I’m just very, very excited. I think
its going to be a great opportunity for
members of our sorority. It’s a going
to be a great place for girls to meet and
gather, and Ithink it will be a very beau-
tiful addition to university hous-
ing,” Pi Beta Phi sophomore Allison
Harvey said.

“We’re just really excited about it
because it’s going to mean a while new
level of sorority involvement. The
houses are absolutely beautiful;
they’re uniform, yet still different
enough to keep separate identities.
I’m sojealous that I’m not going to be
here to enjoy them,” Kappa Alpha
Theta president Mandy Stallard said.

Lex police create
new task force

BY ESZTER PADOS
STAFF WRITER

Increased incidents of violent beat-
ings, thefts, robberies and V’MI riots
are serving as signs of the times for
the Lexington Police Department.

Lexington residents and students
alike are losing the luxury of leaving
their doors unlocked and taking mid-
night strolls around town.

The LPD is responding with a pro-
fessionally trained special response
team to deal with unexpected emergency
situations within the city limits.

The infamous VMI “mini-riot” last
fall, which deteriorated into extreme
destruction of property and vandal-
ism, prompted the idea for the special
unit. VMI Post Police and LPD recog-
nized their limited authority and lack
of readiness for such extreme cases.
The team, which will consist of eight
trained professionals, will cooperate
with the drug task force to handle cri-
sis situations in Lexington.

Lexington has long enjoyed the
luxury of safety within its borders,
and the majority of students and lo-
cals don’t realize the rising nation-
wide trend toward violence and
crime.Lt. Steve Crowder, special
team commander, recognizes that
the presence ofa group resembling
a military unit is unusual in a small
town like Lexington. Yet he points

Stay off the
brown grass!

BY POLIY DOIG

to increasing small town violence
and crime across the country, which
contradict the “nothing will ever hap-
pen here” attitude common to the
area.

Although the unit is geared toward
the rare emergencies and dangerous
situations in Lexington, the commu-
nity as a whole, including students,
will benefit from the team’s expertise.
Students themselves are often the vic_-
tims of violence. Campus-wide prac-
tices such as university cards and
honor codes do not insulate students
from victimization. There are more than
7,000 residents of Lexington who are
not bound by an Honor Code. Ac-
cording to Sgt. Torben H. Pedersen of
the LPD, last year Washington and
Lee students were the victims of “two
random beatings, as well as various
break-ins and thefts by outsiders.”

Mike Young, Director of Washing-
ton and Lee Security, added that the
special unit “wouldn’t necessarily in-
volve students. They will primarily
deal with drugs, people who are armed,
lost children and other such cases.”

Despite the fact the Lexington has
not experienced the same magnitude
of problems common in other towns,
Commander Crowder believes that the
unit’s response time and qualiﬁcations
will guarantee efficient, fast and up-
to-date safety measures.

BEARING A DISTINCT FIESEMBLANCE TO the University ’s main colonnade, the ﬁve sorority houses pictured here will be completed by/iugust of 2000.
PICTURE PRO VIDEI) BY PAYETl'I;' AssoC1A TES

F

ljl chapter at MIT charged with

alcohol-related death of pledge

State brings
manslaughter
charges against
organization rather
than its members

BY HOLLISTER HOVEY
T-——-— EXECUTIVE EDITOR

With manslaughter and hazing
charges handed down Thursday, Phi
Gamma Delta became the first national
fraternity ever charged with homocide.

No individuals were charged in last
year’s drinking death of Massachu-
setts Institute of Technology freshman
and Fiji pledge, Scott Krueger, so the
organization will most likely face a fine.

According to The Boston Globe,
Krueger drank beer and Jack
Daniels whiskey until he became
nauseated. Two brothe,rs..br.ought

him to his room, put him on his stom-
ach, gave him a trash can and left.
Ten minutes later, he was uncon-
scious and covered in vomit.

After emergency medical techni-
cians came, Krueger was blue in the
face and had a blood-alcohol level of
.401. He died 40 hours later. _

MIT took action after the death by
kicking the Fiji chapter offcampus and
attempting to curb on-campus drinking.

“The student body has had to deal
with radical changes imposed by the
university as a result ofthe incident,
including new rules that impose cam-
pus policelofficers at dormitory and
Greek parties as well as changes in
the resident selection process,” MIT
junior Murthy Mathiprakasam said.
Freshmen will be requited to live on-
campus by 2001. Currently, they are
required to decide their Greek affilia-
tion and/or living plans the first week

of school. The universtiy has also
made efforts to increase alcohol aware-
ness.

But like with Washington and Lee’s
BYOB policy, MIT students have
found loopholes in the system. “Lets
be honest, if a student wants to drink,

‘ he or she can almost always find some-

one willing to buy them alcohol,” MIT
senior Mike Parkins said. “So now in-
stead of drinking at parties, there are
more people drinking before the par-
ties and just showing up drunk.”

Many students and Krueger’s
parents are not satisfied with the
charges and the university sanc-
tions. According to the Kruegers’
lawyer, they are considering law-
suits against the university, the fra-
ternity, and individual fraternity
members.

“There have been many
allogations from those who do not

know the facts of the situation that
the brothers in the house in effect
murdered Scott Krueger,” Parkins said.
“I know a lot of the guys from Fiji and
I knew Scott, and I firmly believe that
no one forced him to drink that night.
Fiji is guilty of providing an atmo-
sphere where drinking was encour-
aged, of not telling Scott he had had
enough and I would go so far as to
say they are guilty of letting him die.

“But I cannot stomach the accu-
sations I have heard that they killed
him. They are not evil men. While it
most likely should have, the result
ofthat night probably never entered
their mind as a possibility,” Parkins
added.

“They liked Scott, or else they
would not have pledged him. He was
their friend, and they will have to live
with his death and their inaction for
the rest of their lives.”

Senior encounters Amityville horror

BY HOLLISTBR HOVBY
-—j——— EXECUTIVE EDITOR

Beta Theta Pi senior Brian Elliott
passed Amityville on North Randolph

- Street early Thursday morning when

a stranger came out of nowhere and
punched him in the eye.

According to Lexington Police Of-
ficer Mike Hess, Francis Johnson, 19,
of Lexington, was having an argument
with another party and walked away
angry. He needed to hit sorrieone, and

Elliot happened to be there. Amityville
resident, Maggie Maher, who was
walking in front of Elliot, heard the blow
and called the paramedics.

Elliot’s cut warranted six stitches.

“I don’t know why it happened. I
was wearing neutral gang colors,” said
Elliot. “Thank God for my good friend
Denny Collins and the girls at
Amityville for helping me.”

A neighbor identified Johnson, and
police arrested him at his home later

NEWS EDITOR

It’s tradition: lazy, late summer days topped off with
Frisbee games or quiet study beneath a tree with the sce-

nic backdrop of the Colonnade.
Forget about it.

The Front Lawn is currently suffering from a bad case
ofthirst and feeling the side effects of Fall Convocation-
related trampling. This, combined with a hot, dry summer
and the breakdown of the irrigation system in July, has
resulted in the closing of the Front Lawn to all through.
traffic. Pedestrians are asked to stay off the grass for the

duration of Fall Term.

“This unfortunate combination of bad circumstances
has caused us to take immediate action to preserve and
protect our historic Front Lawn,” said Scott Beebe, direc-
wt of the physical plant at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity. “We have put a system in place that we are confident
will result in a deep, lush, bluegrass carpet come spring.”

The physical plant will use a combination ofirrigation,

reseeding, herbicides and fertilizer in order to rejuvenate
the lawn, and in addition, will attend a special meeting on

turf management at Virginia Tech.

“We understand the inconvenience and unhappiness
that these steps -will create,” Beebe said. “But after we
have this program in place and the lawn has had time to
heal and to grow we don’t foresee having to limit access to

the Front Lawn.”

(D Sophomore housing frenzy

in full swing: What’s the rush?

CD TALKBACK: If you were
president and had an intern 

PAGE 2

U.

LAST WEDNESDAY AMITYVILLE ( pictured here) was the scene of the unprovoked and cow-
ardly attack against Beta senior Ryan Elliott. PHOTO BY CHRISTIE PHlI.I.Il’S/PHOTO EDITOR

Lu  Boys vs. Girls: how some

BY IVIICHAEL CRITTENDON

freshmen decorate their rooms

: (13 Remodeling ideas from
w students who live off-campus

E PAGE 3

that morning on a charge of malicious
wounding.

Johnson’s bond hearing is sched-
uled for today.

This is not the first incident involv-
ing Amityville.

Besides the attack, Amityville resi-
dents have seen some strange incidents
with some people in the neighborhood.

“One night a man came to our door
and asked for $5,” junior Childs Cantey
said.

This was not their only encounter
with an odd solicitor.

“Another time a little girl came to the
door and said, ‘Mam, do you got any
stamps?” junior Lane Cates said.
“When I said, ‘no,’ shejust stood there
for awhile and then went home. She
didn’t go to any other houses.”

Townies also loiter on the Amityville
wall and others like to use their back-
yard as a shortcut to Stop-In on beer-
runs.

Fiji misses cook

PHOTO EDITOR

When the brothers of Phi Gamma
Delta returned to Lexington this fall,
they were saddened by news of the
death of their cook, Gary L. West.

West died Aug. 7 of complica-
tions stemming from surgery to re-
pair a collapsed lung caused by lung
cancer. Upon learning of West’s death,
brothers expressed deep regret at the
loss of such a beloved member of the
Fijifamily.

Gary West was a member of a band
called the Rarely Herd, a crowd favor-
ite around Lexington in the past few
years. West was also an avid collector
ofNative American artifacts, specifi-
cally arrowheads.

Before working at the Fiji house
Gary was the cook at the Kappa Al-
pha house for two years. Following

the closing of the KA house last
March, West filled the open posi-
tion at the Fiji house. Upon starting
as new cook, West quickly became
a beloved member ofthe house, not
simply as a cook, but as a friend to
many of the brothers.

“He was a great guy and really cool
to hang out with after hours at the
house,” said Fijijunior Rich Isolde.

“Even though he was he was one
ofthe employees, it was almost like
he was one of us,” Fijijunior Greg
Nouza said. “You could go and talk
to him anytime and hang out. He was
a lot of fun.”

In response to West’s death, the
Fiji brothers donated $500 to his
family to help with the cost of his
burial. For those whom West fed
and befriended, he will be well re-
membered and missed.

 Women’s soccer anihilates
Hollins, beats VA Wesleyan

CD Football (0-2), men’s soccer
(1-1) both fall to 0-1 in ODAC

PAGE 4

 

 ii -- -""'~r‘

pinion
ditorial

PAGE 2 SEPTEMBER 21, 1998

1749 1999

     
 

change W&L
community

Once upon a time, about 250 years ago, a
few guys gathered in Augusta County to take

classes at a small school, with nary a white col-A
} umn in sight. The school changed its name a
3; few times, and eventually its location, to a town
2‘, called Lexington. It was on the verge of ﬁnan-
. E cial ruin when a President of some newly United

States put a check in the mail (so that they could
get themselves a Colonnade, and thus, have a
place to streak). Even though what became
known as Mock Con wasn’t yet around to pre-
dict his ascendence, they nevertheless, in his
honor, put a “Dubyuh” in their name and took a
week off to celebrate his birthday.

Some years later, a defeated general rode into
town on a gray horse, built a church and a house,
and, sensin g the future need for more mass quan-
tities of lawyers, added a law school. Used to
giving orders, the general dictated that students

~ would greet each other, as well as refrain from

, things such as lying, cheating and stealing.

9 Grateful, they added to the “Dubyuh” a “nell,”

A and interred him in his church. They made the
horse stay outside.

Following a Greek invasion, Dubyuhnell de-

. cided tobanish them to places like Red Square

and Davidson Park, so that they could conduct
their odd chugging rituals at somewhat of a dis-
tance. Later, sensing the need for a little play

» with their work, students decided that a modest

soirée would be good. They called it “Fancy
Dress,” and it stuck around.
Dubyuhnell never was a place to change with

—g the times; it usually lagged at least a few de-
E cades behind. Certain that things like minori-

ties and coeducation would never last, it waited
a good century or so to be sure that they weren’t
simply passing fads (like those freshmen bean-
ies). Even the automobile never really caught

t on until the addition of the tailgate.

So, on this, the 250"‘ anniversary of our

, Dubyulmell, we can all smile fondly at our ﬁne
~ traditions, and rest safe in the knowledge that
~ after another 250, they’ll still be wearin’ those
' damn khakis.

flip: iiiing-tum Iﬂhi

Executive Editors Tarah Grant
Hollister Hovey
Copy Editors Sarah Meldrum
Meredith Mlynar
News Editors Polly Doig
John Stewart
w&Iife Editors Ginger Phillips

Erica Prosser
Stephen Pesce
Frances Groberg
Brendan llarrington
Kevin Mcl\'lancmin

Opinion & Editorial Editor
Sports Editors

Last ward Editor

Photo Editor Mike Crittcnden
Christie Phillips
Online Editor Tom W adlow

Layout Assistant Stephanie Bianco

Jill Jarnicson
Jason Williams

Business Manager
Managing Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor and Business Manager, but
The Ring—tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in
the Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by
noon on Saturday to appear in that week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters, columns and “Talkback" do
not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial
Board. Advertising does not reflect the opinions of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-Iunr P/ii
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540)462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
/1lIp.'//ll’/ll.(fdll/~[)/1/

After two weeks at Washington and Lee, it is clear
to me that honor and civility are very sacred to both the

the entire W&L community does a ﬁne job of uphold-
ing these sacred traditions. Some extremely shaky ar-
eas in the university’s behavior, however,.do not re-
flect honor as they should. .

Honor seems to disappear, or at least fade into the
background, upon entering W&L’s
rather aggressive party scene. True, I

Webster’s Dictionary defines

sonal reputation; integrity.” What then can be said for
those who drink illegally and solicit sex knowing it will

thisjust “partyin’ hard” or should the university take a
hard look at what the word “honor” pertains to?"

for parties. -

Honor should extend to social life

student body and the administration. For the most part,’

 

have yet to see any overt lying, cheat- Poison  catalysts. the university should take
ing or stealing; but is that all that ‘P  , » an eniphatic stance and implore stu-
counts’? M1ke:Agnd1°. 02 dentstorefrain from such activities.

 

honor as “high regard or respect; per- 7  2

q ' ingly breaking the law not dishonorable? The univer-
be easier because the other person is intoxicated? ls,
gabadoney ‘ . , . V.
 , _What-l leavefthereader to ponder is this: Is the gen-
 eral debauchery that pervades campus social life dis-
 honorable?,0nejonly has to go to any fraternity party
to seethe answer. Until both students and administra- ,
etors decideto amend the situation, we are left with the

, iuncfertainty of whether or notour honor system is as

1 extensive as we thought... ] :'

During the Executive Committee’s honor system ori~ E
entation, Elizabeth Formadoni said honor wasvin no,
way exclusive to lying, cheating or stealing. Last tithe-; '_
I checked, the honor system did not include adisclaiimer ,

(The students are not the only ones -at fault for-the

duplicity of the honor system. During the freshmen
meeting with the IFC, an administer blatantly told stu-
kients that, though he preferred that they do not drink
gunderage, they should exercise discretion and good
judgmentiif they choose to drink. It seemed as if he
were giving up on telling the studentsnot to drink al-
together. Is this the message a knowledgeable admin-
ister should 'be sending to youthful college students?
With binge drinking incidents on
this campus and others acting as

T 0 steal a candy bar at the Co-op is
a serious honor violation. To be ar-
rested for intoxication or sexual assault is not? Is know-

sity loathes, changing tradion; even if that tradition is

Sophomores in uproar over housing

Everyone is talking about it - at least, everyone in the
sophomore class is talking about it. No, unfortunately I
am not referring to the upcoming Responsibility Sympo-
sium, but to the housing situation for
next year’s junior class. Housing
paranoia has invaded the Class of
2001, and my fellow sophomores
are literally rushing out in throngs
to grab up all the available houses
and apartments in the Lexington
area.

Now, ifthere is a specific house that you have a burn-
ing desire to live in, it makes perfect sense to want to be
first in line for the lease signing.

Perhaps there is a particular place that generations of
your family’s W&L graduates have called home. Or
maybe there is an apartment that is so fabulous that no
other apartment could possibly compare (even those in
the same complex with the same architectural design).

lfthis is the case, then I say go for it, and fast. Many
people are so afraid of being homeless for the duration of
their junior year at W&L, however, ‘
that they are rushing out and signing
leases for whatever places are imme- C C
diately available. Maybe
this is the appropriate time to interject
the old adage “Fools rush in.” A lot of
things can and will change before next
year, and what may seem like the right
action now could turn into regret next
September.

Deciding where to live next year is
an important decision that requires
more thought than “This one’s available. Let’s snatch it
up before someone else does!”

It takes time to find the right place and to ask all of
those necessary questions. Some houses and apartments
will not even be available until the first part of next year,
so binding yourselfinto a contract now may mean missed
opportunities in the future. ., .. .

Sometimes you might find out more information about
what it’s actually like to live somewhere from the current
residents rather than from the landlord. Unfortunately, most
juniors have only been living in their present homes for about
one month and cannot passjudgment on their living condi-
tions in such a short amount oftime. They may not be able
to tell you about those annoying leaky faucets or the bad
insulation because they don’t know about them yet.

{{

uote of the week:

I squeezed that sperm until
a strange sort of insanity came

OVCI‘ me.
—— Herman Melville

}}

    
 

Havel  i.opiniori?I,
Let us: ~.Jc1fiow’.”,;
email us at phii.@wlu,éd
call at (540)-162-49060

A Few Loose Marbles
Ginger Phillips ’01

The madness has
already begun, and
there may be no way
to stop it now.

Due to the inﬂux of sophomore house hunters, many
juniors are being forced by their landlords either to re-
sign leases now or to start making other housing arrange-
ments for next year.

Most other upperclassmen are
amazed at the insanity that is grip-
ping our class. They never under-
stood why we camped out in
droves for classes last year, and
they do not understand why we are
so concerned about our living arrangements now. Most
of them didn’t make housing decisions until at least
halfway through their sophomore year, and unless l’m
mistaken, the local shelter is not filled with members
of the junior class.

As many sophomores are now discovering, friendships
also change over time. A once ideal roommate situation
currently might be forcing you into hibernation in Leybum
Library or camping among the Ruins.

Many sophomores chose to share their new abodes with
different people than they lived with last year as fresh-
men. It only makes sense, therefore, that
roommate preferences might also alter in
the lengthy amount oftime between now
and the beginning of ourjunior year.

Donn counselors and RAs are not cho-
sen until December, which poses a prob-
lem for sophomore applicamsrwvho fear
committing to anything before they know
the outcome of this competition. Study
abroad plans are often not finalized until
7) Spring Tenn. Situations such as these

can cause future problems for people
whose changing plans could interfere with their hasty
housing decisions.

While my advice would normally be to calm down, wait
a while, and avoid making the wrong housing arrangements,
I feel that my appeal is too late. The madness has already
begun, and there may be no way to stop it now.

 

Wa||ace’s death

sparks interest
in racegrelations

This week, another story besides the late unpleasant-
ness in our nation’s capital has been recognized by the
media: the death of former Alabama governor and noto-
rious segregationist, George Wallace.

Hearing about ‘
t\}i\1/.alll(ac:’s lileaihﬂgot me Blows 
in mg a ou e cur- .
rent state of race in the db EIDPHE
national mindset. How

Ta1aMcCookO2‘

far have we as a nation
come towards true tol-
erance of cultural and ethnic diversity?

Needless to say, the 19905 are a much more enlight-
ened time than the l950s. We no longer condone legal
segregation, and a scene such as then-Governor Wallace
standing in the door ofthe University ofAlabama block-
ing the admission of African—American students simply

would not happen

‘ C today.

But while racism

Are we really a in the eyes ofthe law
SOCl€ty that accepts has long since been
people for who they eliminated, has it re-
ally been deleted

area or do We have from the mentality
more ground to cover of the general pub-

lic?

before we truly be- Come, West
come tolerant of wrote in 1993, in his
Others‘) book Race Matter,

ofa time in Manhat-
9) tan when he was re-

fused rides repeat-
edly by cab drivers when attempting to catch a taxi. One
of the cabbies even stopped to pick up a white woman
standing next to him, but denied him.

incidents such as this, when even an educated, obvi-
ously upper-clags black man is denied a cab in favor ofa
white woman, make me wonder ifracism is really all that
removed from American society.

In school, we are taught that segregation by race is
wrong, and that our society does not condone racism in
any way, shape, or form. But in this day and age, I have
to wonder about the accuracy ofthat statement. .

Are we really a society that accepts people for who
they are, or do we have more ground to cover before we
truly become tolerant ofothers? In my opinion, we have
miles to go before we can soundly sleep on this issue.

“ 1»
. *3‘

   

r .

    

iv//'
\

 

I 
l 
at!

._ i;1
g

fix

 

anintem...

“l’d make sure she was good
looking.”

—Mike Hodge ’02
JAMES G. LEYBURN LIBRARY

W/\SHlNGTON & LEE umvgn
LEXINGTON, VA 24450 Sm’

SEP 2 91998

‘‘I’d work her ass offto make my life “l’d buy her a box of Cuban ‘‘I’d buy her a gift certiﬁcate
easier.” ’ cigars.” to the cleaners.”
__’[‘jffany Frieda] ’()7_ —Jeff Bahl ‘O2 —Car|ing Dinkler ‘O2

*1’

.,.

 

 

 You want tips? We got tips

I.

w‘«

 

SEPTEMBER 21, 1998

‘home away from home’

In the dorms, freshmen
decorating splits down

lines of gender
BYELIANNAMARZJANI

STAFF Wnnnz

The inevitable has happened: The class of 2002 has
arrived and settled into the luxurious freshman dorms of
Washington and Lee University. For many, this is under-
standably a huge adjustment.

How do freshmen set up house in rooms that are prob-
ably teeny compared to their cosy bedrooms at home? Do
all of the newest future W&L alumni handle their new,
cramped situations in the same way? Of course not. In
fact, there are very clear style divisions, and they run along
gender lines.

Freshmen women seem to employ three main devices
in their room-expanding endeavors: minis, space savers,
and room makers. All ofthese are available at stores like
Wal-Mart® or K—Mart®, and are relatively inexpensive for
the services they provide.

Minis are compact versions of usually—larger items.
Examples include mini irons and ironing boards, blow dry-
ers, alarm clocks, fans, refrigerators and almost anything
else imaginable. The idea behind minis is this: the smaller
the toys, the more toys one can have.

In their room-ﬁlling philosophy, W&L women seem
«to advocate that more, rather than bigger, is better.

Space savers bend the laws of physics by allowing
several items to occupy nearly the same space, leaving
more room open to create the illusion of roominess in a
small room. Some popular, space-saving examples are plas-
tic containers with several sections and clothes hangers
that can hold multiple items.

Room makers were by far the most popular means of
coping used by the freshmen women. These are devices
that create room by often employing that most concise of
philosophies, “Build up.”

“We used wall hooks, shelves, shoe racks, and rolling
drawers to create more room,” freshman Megan Lott said.

“Our room is small, but I think we arranged it really well.”

Some of the most common room maker methods in-
clude stacking bunk beds, putting beds on cinder blocks,
installing plastic shelves and hooks’ on walls and putting
vertical shoe racks in closets.

Some women installed shelves, put crates on the shelves,
and then put books and frames on top of the crates, thereby
tripling or quadrupling the amount of “stuff” that could be
crammed into the room. Hanging hooks and towel racks are
used to make sure that not even those three inches of space
between the closet door and the clothes inside go to waste.

Room savers operate on the same principle as sky-
scrapers: a lot ofstuffin what is reallyjust one square foot
offloorspace.

Judging by the decorating differences among W&L
freshmen, one could easily believe that men are indeed from
Mars and women from Venus. For all the organizing tech-
niques being used by the interviewed women, few space-
saving trends prevail among the men interviewed. Some men
used CD towers, crates or cinder blocks to save space.

“My roommate and I bunked our beds, which gave us
extra space to put in a couch,” freshman Brandon Herd said.

The efforts generally end there, however, and precious
space under beds often goes un- or under-utilized. Usually
books are not neatly stacked, but rather shoved into a
corner or crate that also plays host to a towel and a bag of
chips. In some rooms, crumpled-up clothing, luggage and
food vie for the same space in a corner. Not surprisingly,
not a towel hanger in sight.

Why the organizational differences between the fresh-
men we interviewed? Some women speculate that men use
fewer space-saving techniques because men generally
bring less stuff to college than women do.

Whatever the reason, freshmen men seem to stress com-
fort, rather than neatness. Their belongings are found in ap-
parently arbitrary locations around the room because that’s
where the men like them, not because the locations are effi-
cient or aesthetic. Freshman women, on the other hand, seem
to stress that comfort comes from neatness. Thus, all their
items are neatly stacked and shelved in out-of-the-way places.

As different as these philosophies are, one should remem-
ber that neither is necessarily wrong. So if any gender wars are to
begin this year, they won’t come from dorm decorating.

 

_ NOT EVERY.  .
ROOM is asaézit‘

“Y and tidy a.g,«Collvin: L 5‘

E Gleason ’s, but each
student’; abode: I I I V
has a personality; I I
Students, employﬂa
wide range of V
decorating styles. - E
and toeach I ‘
student, the style
makes it a home.‘ ‘
Check out the " .
interesting [clog]; ;,*
on the nightstand.‘
Paoro BY CHRISTIE.
PHILLIPS/PHOTO
EDITOR

BY ERICA PRossER
Fmums Eorroa

Whether this is their first year away from home or
their last year of college living, most students can benefit
from a little advice about living and learning at Washing-
ton and Lee University. Here’s a handy list ofthings that
might make everything about the college experience that
much more comfortable.

1. Organize. It doesn’t matter what your method of
organization is as long as you have one. You can sleep
longer if you don’t have to spend twenty minutes
searching frantically for your chemistry notebook be-
fore class. -

2. Get as much sleep as you need. Ifyou absolutely
have to pull an al|—nighter, fine, but do yourselfa favor and
try to avoid it. You’ll feel much better, and you’ll have a
much better chance ofretaining the information you study
if you aren’t fighting to keep your eyes open.

3. Keep your place relatively clean. This doesn’t
mean being obsessive and spotless, of course. But a
dirty place (dust, bread crumbs, empty drink contain-
ers, etc.) invites insects and other fun critters to make a
home where you do.

4. Eat well. Try to maintain a somewhat balanced and
regular diet. This can be hard on a college schedule, but
it’s healthier for you, and you’ll have much more energy if
you take care of youself.

5. Talk to the profs. That’s what they’re there for, after
all. Don’t be afraid to go to your professor’s ofﬁce and ask
questions. Be friendly and polite, and remember: these
people will be writing your letters of recommendation some-
time soon. It would help ifthey knew your name.

6. Budget your time and money. Both ofthese can run
out when you least expect it, and a little planning can save
you a real headache. Keep your checkbook and your cal-
endar balanced.

7. Winter is coming, but don’t expect snow days. In
the Blizzard of 1996, three feet ofsnow fell on Lexington,
and W&L closed for all of two days. Since then, the school
has not closed for inclement weather, and the chances ofa
closing for anything less than another blizzard are slim.
Usually, if Buildings and Grounds can get the walkways
clear (and they always do), the school opens, regardless of
road conditions in the area.

8. Have fun. This is college, not prison. Get the work
done, but play a lot, too. We’re supposed to look back at
these years as the best of our lives, so make ‘em count.

Regarding the map

Last week, this newspaper ran a map of downtown
Lexington, complete with locations of a handful ofbus1-
nesses. Most of the map was transferred directly from a
similar map given to freshmen last year in a book pub-
lished by the University. The editors of this paper made
every effort to include the establishments freshmen tend
to use the most so as to make the map useful to the new
students. It was naturally impossible to include every
single downtown business on the map, but if any mer-
chants were offended by the publication, we apologize.
The Ring—tum Phi sells advertising space in which mer-
chants can publish their telephone numbers and wares,
information that was not provided on the map in ques-
tion. Any inquiries or comments can be directed to The
Ring-tum Phi at 462-4060.

Hey, you!

Do you like to write?

Do you like to see your
name in lights (or bylines?)
Write for the Phi!

To write features, contact
Erica at 464-1806 or Ginger
at 462-4291 and say:

‘‘I wanna write for the Phi!”

W&life

Turning your dorm into a I

PAGE 3

FROM TIE-DYE to tiny lights, this and other collegiate residences give students the chance to express their
creative, domestic or wacky sides. PHOTO /tl’ MIKI5 CRIt'l‘I;‘NI)l~.’N

Off campus living: home is
where the disco ball hangs

Upperclassmen flee
the dorms and carve

niches in Lexington
BY CAROLYN PRBSLY

STAFF Wanna

Forget campus donns and frat houses . . . the Wash-
ington and Lee University upperclassmen know all about
the ﬁner points ofliving away from home. From familiar
childhood furniture to eclectic garage sale ﬁnds, those
who live off campus are

in college, so that’s close to home. The wooden dresser I
have now was from when l was little,” she said.

To bring some extra personality to their house, she
and her roommates bought old lamps and tried to make
them tasteful.

“They were so hideous, so we repainted them
said, laughing.

Senior Shane Dever is no stranger to furnishing with
off-the-wall ﬂavor, either.

“I have a signed picture ofMr. Rogers in my room, since
I met him when I was little,” he said. “And I still have my
childhood bed that looks like a race car, but my feet hang a

foot off the end. How-

!a7

Coyle

on the inside track of
tasteful living and funky
decoration.

Move _over, Martha
Stewart. » .

When W&Ljuniors
Liz Gay, Noelle Gamble
and Erin Eggers moved
into their house at Cedar
Creek, their ideas for
decoration were as far
from gingham and lace as_
one could get.

“We brought the
jungle theme in from
Gaines last year to deco-
rate the living room,”
Gamble said.

“I painted my room
‘pukey’ green,” Gay said
amidst ﬁts of laughter. “I
guess Ijust wanted it to
be different . . . various
shades of puke!”

Eggers’s room ap-
pears to be equally

ever, since l’ve matured,
l’ve given up the Speed
Racer® comforter in fa-
vor of satin sheets and
a disco ball that hangs
from the middle ofmy
room.”

Despite these
many interior design
pioneers, some stu-
dents, like junior Scott
Moses, lack the propen-
sity for extreme decor.

Moses prefers to
furnish his room with
sports and movie post-
ers, memorabilia from
home and souvenirs
from the trips he has
taken.

“And you’ve al-
ways got to have that
one picture from your
guy friends back
home,” he said, com-
pleting the list ofdeco-

unique.

“I’m in a loft with-
out a door,” she ex-
plained, “so I installed an
oriental screen that makes it more private. And I have a
quilt that makes my room feel homey.”

Eggers’s friend, junior Deirdre Coyle, moved into her
place on Marble Lane and also furnished her room in a
way that made it feel more comfortable and familiar.

“All the furniture in my room was used by my sister

IN THIS ROOM, colorful lanterns brighten the surroundings
while expressing a unique character. P1-/om /1}’ CHms77/5

rative necessities.

With tastes ranging
from “jungle meets the
, Orient” to “Mr. Rogers
meets ‘Boogie Nights, the upperclassmen are old pros at
making their living quarters seem more I ike home.

In furnishing their rooms with decorations tailored to
their own personal whims, these creative off-campus resi-
dents succeed in making their environments reflect the fa-
miliar, the funky or the fantastic.

1”

  
    

Weléotnegto Washington and Lee University! Stay-

... , ngcampus—on the weekends may be fine, but get-

;i’ 5 and having fun can be much better. But in

ii ounlittle corner ofVirginia, there isn ’t that much to do

 fC,l0sé,by (no, really?/). So here 's a guide to interesting

5-destinations no more than a few hours away from good
old This week: Desti-
nation Williamsburg.
_ V Got a hankering for
history, good cooking or
just, interesting shopping
spots? Then Colonial
Williamsburg is for you. It’s
just a few hours (and cen-
turies) away.

Colonial Williamsburg
is part of the bigger city of
Williamsburg, Virginia,
home to the usual attrac-
tions like dining, shopping
and camping. To experience Colonial Williamsburg,
though, you must buy a ticket at the Visitor Center, take
a short bus ride into the past and prepare to do some
walking.’

Along the way, you will see re-enactors in period
costume, shops full of homemade goodies, soldiers
maintaining a camp and craftspeople . . . well, crafting.

It’s strange how fascinating the old buildings and

 travel through time

 

products can be, especially if you’re from Lexington.
Williamsburg is a Revolutionary War-era spot, quite re-
moved from the Civil War-era style of Lexington. Just
the change of brick color should be welcome.

Williamsburg features shows and demonstrations daily,
and each week traces the progress of the colony from British
rule to independence. And
don’t forget: The College of
William and Mary isthere, too.

To get to Colonial
Williamsburg, head east on _
Interstate 64 to exit 238 (mid-
way between Richmond and
Norfolk). Follow the green
and white signs to the Visi-
tor Center.

Tickets vary based on
access and length of stay.
The basic pass is $26 for one
day and does not include
some of the houses (such as the Governor’s Palace).
The Colonist’s Pass is $30 for two days and allows
slightly more access, although not every building is
accessible. The Patriot’s Pass, $34, is good for a whole
year and includes full access and discounts on shop-
ping, dining and entertainment in the area. This is by
far the best value, especially ifyou plan to return.

— compiled from staff reports

 

 

‘PAGE 4

Volleyball spikes again

Freshmen
come up
big in contests
BYSmHEGxMm

 

STAFF Wizrnaiz

Coming into Sunday’s match
against Greensboro College, the Gen-
erals had not dropped a game since
their match against Coatholic in the
Washington and Lee Invitational.
Sunday was a different story. W&L
pulled out a ﬁve game nail-biter (6-15,
15-13,15-6,14-16,15-10)tobringtheir
overall record to 7-1.

The first two games saw the
Generals dealing with a lack of com-
munication and confusion around
the court. Greensboro frequently
capitalized on the quick middle at-
tack and a big block, both of which
W&L lacks in their arsenal.

Freshman Lindsay Ruckert
showed tremendous leadership
around the court and was com-
pletely dominant offensively.
Ruckert deﬁnitely appears to have
secured a very important role on
this year’s team already into the
season.

Nancy Reinhart also made an im-
pressive showing offensively in this
grudge match. Ruckert and Reinhart
were offensive staples for the Gener-
als that were good for a quick side-
out and power plays.

During the critical second game
win for W&L, Tori Hayes played spec-
tacular defense coupled with smart
hitting that kept W&L alive in the
match. Hayes, Ruckert, Reinhart, and
the sets of sophomore Katherine
Kline set the tone for W&L’s win.

The ﬁfth and ﬁnal game of the
match was a tight rally-score game
brought on by Greensboro’s come
from behind win in the fourth. W&L
led at 12-2 in the fourth game and gave
up 11 unanswered points.

The Generals lineup looked tired
through the tough previous three
games. However, during the ﬁfth
game, the fresh legs of freshman Ricka
Hildebrand came through with tre-
mendous hitting and blocking. “I was
just excited and ready to beat them in
ﬁve,” Hildebrand contended. I

The Generals’ 1998 season contin-
ued with the winning trend set at last
week’s W&L Invitational. Thursday,
Hollins College was the latest oppo-
nent to fall to the Generals. The 15-8,
15-1, 15-10 sweep brought W&L’s

sports

FRESHMAN LIZZY SWANN spikes a ball in Sunday 's match against
Greensboro. The Generals are now 6-1. Howsrizk HOVERY/EXECUTIVE EDﬂ'0R

overall record to 6-1, and their ODAC
record to 2-0.

The ﬂexibility of the Generals’ ros-
ter, their deep bench, and the combi-
nation of experience and a talented
freshman class once again proved to
be the winning factors. Head Coach
Terri Dadio was able to work 13 play-
ers into the lineup at some point in the
match. The Hollins match “was a good
chance to have the other players get
the experience,” Dadio said.

In a show ofthe impact of W&L’s
freshman and upperclass talent,
Snodgrass and. Hildebrand lead the
team with ﬁve kills apiece, both off
of the setting of sophomore Pam
Saulsbury.

“The Hollins game was really
good because we have a tendency
to play down to the level of our op-
ponent, but we didn’t do that in that
case,” Snodgrass said.

The various combinations of
players and winning attacks in this
early part of a difficult season ap-
pears to be the crucial element that

Dadio and the Generals need to
combat the loss of the powerful
Class of 1998, and to maintain their
ODAC dominance. -

Tuesday, W&L was given no
trouble in handily defeating
Guilford 15-7, 15-5, 15-4. This
match marked the ﬁrst of the Gen-
erals’ 10 ODAC matches. A

Guilford was the only ODAC loss
for the Generals in 1997; after this
win for W&L and the win over the
Quakers in the semi-ﬁnals of last
week’s invitaional, redemption has
been served.

Junior Nancy Reinhart, 1997’s
ODAC Player of the Year, led the Gen-
erals with nine kills and 12 digs.

Reinhart’s ODAC experience will
be crucial for W&L in the weeks to
come, as the Generals head further
into their schedule and closer to the
ODAC tournament at Bridgewater.

Wednesday begins a three-game
stint on the road for W&L as they
travel to Randolph-Macon Women’s
College for their third ODAC match.

Women’s soccer wins again

Team breaks
record in 14-0

one game in their 14-0 rout.
Scoring throughout the game was fast and furious. The

 

rout of Hollins

BYHwwmCmmmc

SPORTS FHTOR

If there were any questions about the women’s soc-
cer team living up to last year’s standards, they were
silenced last week. The Generals defeated their sec-
ond and third opponents to improve to 3-0 for the
season and in the ODACs.

On Saturday against Virginia Wesleyan, senior forward
Ginny Jemigan netted her ﬁﬁh goal of the season during the
second half to put the team up 1-0. The score remained 1-0 at
the final buzzer as the Generals won their third straight game.
Senior Stephanie McKnight and sophomore Lauren Harris
combined for their third straight shutout in goal.

“It was a good, close game,” Jemigan said. ‘‘It was the
first time this season that we had been challenged, and we
were struggling a little bit with recovery defense all over the
ﬁeld. Overalll, we played a lot better than we had been.”

Thursday’s contest against Hollins was anything but a
struggle. The Generals set a school record for most goals in

team posted six goals in the first 19 minutes of the game,

including three in a span of 1:40. Two more goals in the".

period sent the team into halftime with an 8-0 lead.

The scoring didn’t end there. The Generals jumped right
into the second half, scoring another six goals in under 15
minutes. The score remained 14-0 until the final buzzer.

“Despite the huge margin on the scoreboard, it wasn’t a
team effort out there,” Jemigan said. “It wasn’t the team we
ended last year’s season or the team we had been working to
be this season. We played as individuals, and all in all, it was
not a comforting victory.” »

Eight different Generals recorded points in the rout, in-
cluding Jemigan, who tied a Washington and Lee record
with four goals in one game. Senior co-captain and all‘-time
leading scorer Karin Treese had three goals and two assists,
and freshman midﬁelder Kate Bidwell recorded her fust ca-
reer hat trick in the contest.

Other goals were scored by sophomore midﬁelder Liz
Olson, sophomore midﬁelder Courtney Nolan, freshman for-
ward Lauren Wendell, and freshman midﬁelder Drew Pow-
ers. .
The Generals will try to extend their run Sunday at 2 p.m.
against Greensboro on the Liberty Hall Fields.

     
  

  

W&L.

 

    

.__g(')’ 9 
AVa;1Wesleyan 3 _
.     4

 

‘Guilford  27 l

 

sponrs BRIEFS

W&L dance team
selects new members

Try-outs for the W&L’s dance team, R.E. Belles, were
held on Saturday. The new team members are: Cyndi
Johnson (captain), Sybil Prince (lst lieu.), Bethany
Petrofsky (2nd lieu.), Charron Hodges, Bentley Knight,
Denise Mayo and Ashley Tyson.

Riding team gallops
towards competition

On Saturday, the riding team will compete at Hollins
College. The competition starts at 10 a.m. and lasts all day.

The riding team currently has 35 riders either actively
competing or training for a place in the competition lineup.
All members will participate Saturday.

SEPTEMBER 21, 1998

Guilford stuns Generals

 

Team drops to
«s  0-2 after heart-
breaking third quarter

BY BRENDAN HARRINGTON

SPORTS EDITOR

For the second week in a row, turnovers and a lack of a
solid run defense proved to be the Generals’ downfall as
Guilford downed Washington and Lee 27-20 on Saturday
afternoon in Greensboro, North Carolina.

The Generals committed ﬁve turnovers, four of them by
Christian Batcheller, on their way to a heartbreaking loss.
Batcheller threw two interceptions and fumbled twice.

“You can’t turn the ball over and expect to win football
games,” head coach Frank Miriello commented. “We didn’t
make the big plays when we needed to, and that was the

I difference in the ball game.”

The Generals once again had problems stopping the run,
as the Generals gave up 255 yards on the ground. Leading
the Quakers was senior running back Dwayne Cherry who
finished with 153 yards on 20 carries and two touchdowns.

“We got a lot of young guys out there on our defense
and at times it can be a little scary,” Miriello said. “But the
big improvement from the Hopkins game is that the de-
fense made some great plays down the stretch that gave
our offense two opportunities to win.”

Despite the ﬁve turnovers, the Generals still had nu-
merous chances to tie or win the game down the stretch.
After Dwayne Cherry scored on a 35-yard touchdown run
to make the score 27-20, Batcheller was hit from behind on
the ensuing drive, forcing a fumble. Terrance Wilson re-
covered for Guilford at the Generals’ six-yard line with 7:26
left in the game and it looked as though that would be the
game. But the defense stepped it up and kept the Quakers

out of the end zone, stopping senior running back David
Heggie twice on the one-yard line and forcing a unsuc-
cessful 20-yard ﬁeld goal attempt that kicker Matt Daly
hooked to the left.

The Generals took over on their own 20 with just over
ﬁve minutes left to play and drove the ball all the way down
to the Guilford 24-yard line before Batcheller coughed it up
on a botched option play with 1 :29 left in the game. But once
again the defense came through in the clutch when it looked
as though all hope was lost. The Generals’ defense then
forced Guilford to go three and out. W&L got the ball back
on the Guilford 49-yard line with 31 seconds left in the game
following a short punt by Heggie.

On ﬁrst and ten, Batcheller threw an incomplete pass
intended for senior wide out Chas Chastain that was
nearly intercepted at the Guilford 20-yard line. On sec-
ond and ten, Batcheller threw long into double cover-
age looking for J.T. Malatesta, but the ball skipped off
Malatesta’s outstretched hand ﬁve yards deep in the
end zone and the pass fell incomplete. On third and
ten, Batcheller threw to sophomore running back
Hanley Sayers on a screen play, and Sayers took it
down all the way to the Guilford 24.

The clock stopped with three seconds left to move the
chains after the ﬁrst down yardage as Batcheller lined up
the offense for one last play. On the ﬁnal play, Batcheller
threw to the back left comer of the end zone looking for
Chastain, but the ball was batted down and it fell harrn—
lessly to the turf as time expired.

Batcheller ﬁnished the day 16-25 for 194 yards, one
touchdown and two interceptions. For the Quakers,
quaterbacks Brian Foulks and Jon Hardy were a combined
9-25 for 133 yards, no touchdowns, and no interceptions.
Malatesta led all receivers with 53 yards on four catches.

“We have a tough schedule,” Miriello said. “We just
have to keep focusing on the positive aspects of these
games and try not to dwell on the losses.”

Men’s soccer falls to 1-1

Generals can’t
score in first
ODAC contest

 

BY Tor) '\WiiiiAMs

STAFF VVRITER

In their ﬁrst ODAC game of the season, the Generals
failed to score in their 3-0 loss to Virginia Wesleyan. The
defeat sends the Generals to 1-1 and 0-1 in the ODAC con-
ference.

The Blue Marlins, ranked 17th nationally in Division III
standings, led the Generals at halftime by a score of 1-0.

Daniel McVey, a junior forward from Virginia Wesleyan,
scored with a sharp volley from the comer to give the
Marlins a lead with 4:01 remaining in the first half.

Two sophomore forwards from Virginia Wesleyan each
added a goal in the second half. Vincent Sciullo headed
one past General goalkeeper Andrew Grimes during a Gen-
eral defensive breakdown approximately ten minutes into
the second half.

Saturday was the first time that Grimes, a freshman, has
stepped in front of the net for the Generals. Justin Hauck
followed suit later in the half with another header past
Grimes to give the Marlins the 3-0 lead that would later
become the ﬁnal from Liberty Hall Field.

“I was glad to get into the game,” Grimes said. “But it
just didn’t come out the way anyone wanted. They were a
tough team, but we had our own mistakes.”

Washington and Lee head coach Rolf Piranian knows

that the Marlins are “deﬁnitely one of the best teams in
the conference,” and he says the Generals have “a lot of
work ahead of them.”

“We’re a good team, but we’ll have to see how we
respond [to the loss],” Piranian said. “Hopefully, we’ll
come back and work harder this week and turn this around.”

Senior Sam Chase, who set a school record for most
goals in a game in last week’s contest against Catholic,
said that he didn’t feel much additional pressure entering
Saturday’s game, other than the fact that Virginia Wesleyan
is one of the league’s top teams. 1

“They’re a good team, and we got some bad breaks,”
Chase said. “But aside from that, I don’t think we played
all that badly.” Like Piranian, Chase said he hopes the loss
will serve as the team’s wakeup call.

“I think we can turn this loss into a positive,” he said.
“That was our second game, and we’re not match-ﬁt yet.
Once we get a couple more games under our belt, we’ ll be
ﬁne. Hopefully we’ll even see them in the tournament.”

Prior to Saturday’s kickoff, W&L athletic director Mike
Walsh honored Chase for setting the record for most ca-
reer goals by presenting him with the game ball.

“I feel quite honored that they did that for me,”
Chase said of the presentation. “I wish I CO.lld give
the ball to all the guys who’ve given me the passes for
the past four years.”

Chase promptly gave the ball to his parents, Sam and
Nancy Chase, who were present for their son’s second
game as a senior.

The Generals will travel to Emory to face Emory & Henry
College on Thursday at 4:30 p.m.

 

SOPHOMORE COURTNEY NOLAN dribbles easily past a Hollins player towards goal in the 14-0 rout. Nolan
scored a goal as the Generals set a record for goals in a game in the contest. ZEENIE GINWALLA/PH! STAFF



'Thursday
Men’s soccer @ Emory & Henry

Friday
Volleyball @ Maryville

  UPCOMING
zvznrs .

VVednesday
Volleyball @ RMWC

Saturday
Football @ Centre
Riding Team @ Hollins, 10 a.m.

Cross Country @ Dickinson
Men’s soccer @ Goucher

Volleyball @ Maryville
Sunday

Women’s soccer vs.
Greensboro, 2 p.m.

 

SEPTEMBER 21, 1998

RESPONSIBILITY LECTURE CONTINUES

Princeton University Professor Amy Gutmann will give a talk titled
“Religious Liberty and Civil Responsibility” on Thursday. She has served
on the faculty at Princeton since 1976, and in 1996 she wrote “Color Con-
scious: The Political Morality of Race” with Anthony Appiah.

Harvard University Professor Charles Hallisey will deliver a responsi-

bility lecture next Monday. His talk, titled “The Sense ofCivil Responsi-
bility in Contemporary Buddhism,” will focus on the lack ofengagement
with concrete legal issues by contemporary Buddhist intellectuals.

All ofthe responsibility lectures will take place in the Science Center

' Addition, Room A214 at 7:30 p.m.

FILM SOCIETY BRINGS SNOW TO TROUBADOUR

The next presentation ofthe the W&L Film Society will be “Smilla’s
Sense of Snow” (Denmark, 1995), directed by Bille August. The sus-
penseful thriller, which is based on a best-selling novel by Peter Hoeg,
revolves around a possible murder in Copenhagen, but it is much more
fascinating as a character study of Smilla Qaavigaaq Jesperson, a bitter
half-Inuit woman, powerfully played by Julia Ormond. Screenings will

I _ be at 7:30 p.m. Friday and Saturday in the Troubadour Cinema.

CROCKETT WRITES BOOK ON DURRENMATT

German Professor Roger Crockett has written a comprehensive overview

‘ of one of Switzerland’s most talented and scandalous playwights. In his book,

“Understanding Friedrich Diirrenmatt,” Crockett examines Diirrenmatt’s dra-
matic and narrative oeuvre as well as his failures. He notes that the latter is
often as revealing about an author as the former. The book is now available in
the University Bookstore.

WRITE FOR THE RING-TUM PHI

. The Ring-tum Phi invites freshmen and other students interested in work-
ing on the newspaper to attend our weekly meetings 7:30 p.m. Tuesday nights.

« You can control the time commitment: Write one article a month to have

writing samples for job interviews or talk to one of our editors about an assis-
tant editor position and spend every weekend in the ofﬁce.

MEMORIAL SERVICE FOR ED HAMER

A memorial service for former Washington and Lee romance languages
professor Ed Hamer will be held on Wednesday at 4 p.m. in Lee Chapel.
Hamer passed away on Aug. 13 while traveling abroad with the W&L
Alumni College. Hamerjoined the W&L faculty in 1954 and taught at the
school for 42 years before retiring in 1996.

MARTY LECTURES IN LEE CHAPEL
Dr. Martin E. Marty, one of America’s most respected authors and

scholars in the field of religion, will speak on the issue of “Christianity
‘ Among the Religions: The Global Scene at the (End of the Millennium”

7:30 p.m. Thursday in Lee Chapel. .
' —'—'e-mail General Notes to phi@wlu.edu

;f,Lyn Cook.

 I_EwINsKY OFFERED MODELING JOB IN ITALY

 ftreithat killed him and injured several others. Authorities had no com-

  Too much homework can be bad for you, according to two acadeIn-
P ics from London University. A study paper produced by Dr. Susan Hallam

 ting daily.

I _STARR’S DAUGHTER JOINS CHELSEA

' ‘MISS VIRGINIA CROWNED MISS AMERICA
9 , E I Roanol<e’s Nicole Johnson, a 24-year-old diabetic who wears an in-
 sulin pump on her hip, was crowned Miss America 1999 on Saturday,
Johnson works as a writer and producer for “The 700 Club” promo-
tions and wants to be a national news anchor and national diabetes
I ‘spokeswoman.
‘ ‘I Miss North Carolina Kelli Bradshaw was ﬁrst runner—up and Miss
Florida Lissette Gonzalez was second runner-up. Rounding out the top
' ﬁve were Miss Missouri Deborah McDonald and Miss Kentucky Chera—

3An Italian fashion house is offering Monica Lewinsky $480,000 to

I model one of its suits at a show. Rome-based Gattinoni wants Lewinsky

for its ﬁrst collection for larger women, Italian newspapers reported
, ;,Saturday. ‘

‘OINEI DEAD, 16 HURT IN KENTUCKY DORM FIRE

. Students and faculty mourned the death of a Murray State University
a ophomore as investigators tried to find out who set the residence hall

“I-rnent Friday on whether the tire was related to a suspicious blaze ﬁve
 days earlier on the same ﬂoor of the same building.

FORGOTTEN CONVICT RELEASED
if I A 58-year-old woman who was jailed last year when prison officials
discovered she never served a manslaughter sentence imposed 16 years
ago was set free Friday. Ms. Randley, who now plans to “serve God,”
was sentenced in 1981 to eight years in prison for shooting her boy-
,_friend to death. But because of a bureaucratic ‘mix-up, no one ever ar-
 ‘rived to take her away. ‘

QHOMEWORK HAS BAD EFFECTS »

"and Dr. Richard Cowan says homework for children younger than the
I age of ‘I2 can create “extreme tensions” in the family. , ,

The English government recently issued homework guidelines even
;;for children as young as four, saying they should do 10 minutes of read-

While Bill Clinton and Kenneth Starr might not be friends, their daugh-

ters will be rooting for the same football team this fall. Starr arrived in

,Palo Alto last Wednesday to help his daughter Carolyn settle in at

I ,Califomia’s elite Stanford University, where President Clinton’s daugh-
*ter Chelsea is enrolled as a sophomore. ‘ ,, ~- ‘*

 ' I ~ / . p _. —-compiledfrom the AP

BY TARAH GRANT

Awful Art

Plenty of Ravv, Roasted & Fried Oysters -

ernrnet svvirnrning
Blue Dogs

ALI. AcEs EVENT - KIDS 12 8. UNDER FREE - RAIN on SHINE -
LAVVN CHAIRS AND BLANKETS VVELCOMED

8th Annual

hur's Oyster Roast

TO BENEFIT FEEI7 THE I:UTLJI'\3E
Iyeatuniug

ADMISSION $5

NIAIINI STREET IN FRONT OF SEA BREEZE CAFE.

PAGE 5

Moyers’ lecture on drug abuse
creates diverse student reaction

. EXECUTIVE EDITOR

The press release promised stories
from his “personal experiences” at
Washington and Lee University. The
posters promoted him as someone to
whom we could relate. Many students
came to Alumnus William Cope
Moyers’ Contact lecture last Monday
night expecting educated insight and
analysis of W&L’s most popular so-
cial activity from a man who was once
in our situation. ,

Instead, they got what some stu-
dents described as an hour-long
“infomercial,” promoting Hazelden,
the drug rehabilitation center for
which Moyers now works, and its
public policy agenda.

“It was propaganda bullshit,” said
one student who was required to at-
tend the lecture for one of his classes
but left after 15 minutes.

Moyers, who has appeared on
“Larry King Live” and the “Oprah
Winfrey Show,” showed his W&L
audience a slide show, then distrib-
uted a Hazelden publicity packet.

Some students found the lecture
disappointing not because of what it
addressed, but because of what it did
not address.

“It failed to live up to my expec-
tations because he failed to address
the ‘early end’ of addiction, such as
we might find here at W&L,” senior
Patrick McCormack said. “I now
know more about insurance than I
could ever cared to know, and I have
learned a bit more about helping full-
blown alcoholics ﬁnd treatment, but
. . . dealing with problem drinking,
as opposed to alcoholism, would have
been more valuable to us as a com-
munity.”

Moyers spent almost half of the
lecture advocating Hazelden-sup-
ported legislation that would increase

everyone’s insurance premium by ap-
proximately $15 per year to help sub-
stance-addicted patients. Alcohol ad-
diction is the “same as any other dis-
ease” and thus its victims should re-
ceive just as much public sympathy
and financial support, Moyers said.

While some audience members
seemed skeptical of this conclusion
due to the “free will” component of
drinking and alcohol use, Moyers’
persuasive rhetoric convinced some
students.

“I would consider it an investment,

-1
1
»

when taking into account the cost of ‘

drunk driving accidents, domestic vio-
lence and police costs,” senior Erin

Kraal said. “It doesn’t make sense that '

an insurance company would treat the
injuries one might sustain from being
an alcoholic (liver cancer, car acci-

dents, falls, etc.), but not the disease

that causes it.”

Moyers encouraged audience .
members to write letters to Congress -

to support the legislation. He also
challenged them to confront alcohol
abuse in their everyday lives. It is
something that can be changed, partly
through dialogue, Moyers said.
Contact Chairman Jason Hahn
agreed. “I think Moyers gave students
a great deal to think about,” Hahn said.
“Hopefully it will lead to some pro-
ductive campus discussions.”

The discussion, however, might be .

limited. While lecture attendees al-
most filled the C-school classroom
where Moyers was speaking, almost
half of the audience was comprised

of faculty members and Lexington _

residents, not exactly W&L’s “at-risk”
population.
“I don’t think he’ll have much ofa

general effect,” junior Jessica Helm 4
said. “Sure ‘Oprah’ and ‘Larry King’ ’

want him, but all his home turf could
provide was an audience of 30.”

send thought-
provoking comments
to phI@wIu edu

Something to think about...

“When a man talks dirty to a woman, it’s
sexual harassment. When a woman talks
dirty to a man, it’s $3.95 a minute.”

—-seen on a t-shirt

Fried Shrilnp — Clana Chovvder — AND NIORE AVAIL!-\'BLE"'

g BIueBeat Revue
.CarbOn Leaf

NO FOOD, BEVERAGES OR COCDLERS ALLOVVED - NO DOGS

80.4-.64-3.8601  VVVVVV-BﬂAYOISLAND.CONI

SPONSORED BY XL 102 AND Q94

SUNDAY, OCTOBER 4th, I993 - I2 to 7 PM - ON MAYO ISLAND.

(2l3A£...L.   1-877-i%§*C'}~FEE—4l3

I1 IIIIJUU I$L-IIIID DI2l]DU(Il[III

TAKE  
RISKS

 I‘.

IFE...

(not in credit cards)

Introducing the hlevv Anmorlcan
Express” Credit card for Students.
Live for today-

Build for tornorrovv-

The New Arnarican Express Cradlt
Card for Students is a resource you
can depend on.\/Vith benefits like big
airfare savings. free credit inforrnation,
and no annual fee. it'll help you get the
rnost frorn your student years —— and
help you build a solid financial
foundation for the future.

TQ APPLY

 

PAGE 6

ahitol H umor, Opinion and Reviews
  last Word

There’: ﬁnally something good at the movies

Diaz). Not only does the investigator ﬁnd “hair gel.” Why is her. hair standing up

BY BRIAN PRSICO
MOVIE Ozrnc

o|12'32i5l

(WORTH THE FULL PRICE OF ADMISSION)

Nobody could have possibly predicted
the success that “There’s Something About
Mary” would attain during this.summer’s
movie season. It seemed like it was destined
to fail. It was relying on the star power of
Cameron Diaz to carry it. Ben Stiller played
the lead character and his box ofﬁce appeal
had been limited to, well, frankly, nothing.
Even his comedy show had failed. There
hadn’t been any sort of MTVesque hype
about it at all. So how could this lead fish
possibly swim with as much success?

Well, for one thing, it’s really, really
funny. The story centers around a down
and out writer (Ben Stiller) who hires a
shady insurance investigator (the terriﬁc
Matt Dillon) to track down his high-school
love interest of thirteen years ago (Cameron

BY KEVIN MCMANHVIIN
—‘—*‘m- RAVING AND DRoouNo
For two days this summer I had the dis-
tinct pleasure of serving jury duty. In the
process I managed to have my last few shreds
of respect for our legal system ripped away
and generally found jury duty to be as in-
sulting and painﬁilly embarassing an experi-
ence as the Pauly Shore film of the same name.

The whole thing began when I received a I

lovely invitation from the State of New Jer-
sey. They were wondering if I were busy on
August the 1 1th, and would I like to drop by
the Union County Courthouse-for some tea
and scones and maybe jury duty? In very
polite language they suggested that if I
couldn’t make the courthouse function, per-
haps I’d rather stop byjail later for up to 30
days.

So I decided to make the trek over to Eliza-
beth, NJ (which, once you get past the lan-
guage barrier, is really a nice town if you like
that whole “decayed urban center swarming
with filth” look) and have my day in court.

The people there can best be described
as characters in an existential freak show.
Take thejury manager, a man whosejob re-
quires speaking in front of large groups all

Mary, but he ends up falling in love with
her. Things turn into absolute chaos

as everyone begins to compete for
Mary’s affection.

The simple plot isn’t what
makes the movie so appealing.
The tacky assortment of jokes,
ranging from masturbation to
mocking the mentally handi-
capped, gets disgusting at
times. Incredibly disgusting.
The Farrelly brothers, Peter
and Bobby, who wrote the
scripts for “Dumb and
Dumber” and “Kingpin,” de-
cided that the one way to make
this movie refreshingly original
is to take the innuendo down I
to the next level. And good
God, do they ever. Where most
movies might have stopped at the
actual insinuation of “cleaning
the loaded gun,” the Farrelly
brothers actually show you the

day. This guy had a lithp that made him thoot
thpittle like Daffy Duck on methamphet-
amines.

 let’s not forget about the Mensa can-
didates that ﬁlled that ranks ofthe jury pool.
The simplest of tasks — calling out your last
name when your juror number was called —
seemed a most gargantuan feat to these mu-
tants.

Perhaps the jury manager was partly to
blame (we may never know if juror number
thix theventy theven showed up that day),
but he must have explained the system at
least 40 times and people still responded with
gems like “here” or “that’s my number.” Un-
less Thatsmynumber is more common a fam-
ily name in central Jersey than I thought, there
were a hell ofa lot of people whojust didn’t
get it.

Then there’s my personal favorite: the man
next to me who showed me his jury card and
asked which number was hisjuror number. I
pointed to the big number in the center of the
card with the words “juror number” in front
of it. Oh yes, and our justice system is
founded on the belief that these people are
capable of weighing complex legal issues and
deciding people’s fate. Super.

   
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  

Across:

l. The king ofthe d-hall (the man
whose name rhymes with “Fritz”)
3. The favorite party spot across
from the post office that rhymes
with “dunster”

8. Where they come in ﬂocks,
wearing ties and sundresses to
drink, eat and be merry

9. The place where naked people
have been known to run and ﬂap
their arms and scream, “I’m
naked, I’m naked!” early in the
morning

11. The studly man who reigns
supreme over all the dorms

13. An often-heard statement in
the d-hall line: “What you need,

93

l_;The succulent meal of choice

' at Lee-Hi aﬁer 2 a.m.

16. The treed triangle where there
is always a party going on

17. The stylin’ man in the blue
shirt and sunglasses who will A
steal your car and sell it to the
Rockbridge gypsies if he sees it
on campus.

—This week ’s crossword puzzle was written by Dan Birdwhistle
and created by Jason Williams. See next week's issue for the answers.

it

Down:

1. Dean Howison can often be
seenjumping around his yard
with glee when playing this
game

2. The coolest lady in d-hall (the
woman who knows your name
by heart)

4. The imported girls you often
see at parties: they stand in
packs of5-8 and often hail from

5.4 a.m.—~lt’s cold. lt’s dark.
The party is over, and it’sjust
you, a barn, an outhouse and a
cow. Where are you?

6. The dorm where there are no
shower curtains, no women and
lots of guys

7. The way the freshmen travel
to parties

l0. The late-night DJ party where
one often sees things that are,
well, a little out ofthe ordinary
11. The foreign ‘broil’ which has
become known as the best d-hall
meal, hails from where?

12. Pieces of these dorm room
essentials often end up in the
quad by 6 a.m.

like that? Finger it out for yourself.

But even with low-brow toilet humor
as gratuitous as getting your “franks
and beans” caught in a zipper, you
need an incredible cast to

    

this movie relies on ensemble

comedy, and everybody

brings their share. Stiller is
wonderfully dorky, Dillon is
incredibly sleazy, and Diaz is an
alluring straight woman to this
bizarre, obsessive group around her.
The characters are what make
this movie fun, from a retarded brother who
wears earmuffs all year round to
Superbowl Quarterbacks. This movie has
veteran comedic actors (Chris Elliot:
“Cabin Boy,” “Groundhog Day”), up and
coming actors (Harland Williams: “Half
Baked,” “Rocketman"’) and relative new-
comers (Lee Evans as Mary’s friend
. Tucker). The astounding mesh of these
talented actors helps to make the au-

Anyway, I managed to survive the rig-
ors of the jury selection round and move on
to the prize round, where, if I correctly an-
swered a series of questions, I could win a
washer/dryer combo, a new Toyota Camry,
a year’s subscription to . . . no, wait, the
only prize was getting on the jury.

It turns out the defendant was so con-
cerned with the outcome of the trial that he
didn’t even bother showing up for it. I know
if I were on trial for possession of cocaine
with intent to distribute within I000 feet of a
school zone I’d possess at least a casual
curiosity in the outcome of the case, but I
guess that’sjust me.

As for the actual trial, the prosecutor pre-
sented a case as airtight as Howard Hughes’
bedroom. In response, the defense tried a
brilliant “no defense” defense. No wit-
nesses, no evidence, nothing but the words
“the defense rests, your honor.” Honestly.

In her summation, the defense attorney
(who was like a modem day Clarence Danow,
if only Clarence Darrow had been remark-
ably incompetant) stated her client’s posi-
tion V see, he wasjust holding the bag for
a friend, see, and had absolutely no idea it
contained more drug paraphenalia than



carry it off. With no stars, ‘ ‘ 1

dience laugh right up to the dance number
credits.
“Mary” is honestly a movie that can be
watched over and over, as proved by its
relative success during the summer (it has
already broken the 100 million mark and is
still climbing). Granted, it’s not going to
be a “Titanic” or “Good Will
Hunting.” lt’s not going to
win any Academy Awards.
, It’s not even going to stay
around in the theatersfor
much longer. But, with the
deluge of awful comedies
that summer movie audi-
ences were struck with (namely “Mafia!”
and “Wrongfully Accused,” both ofwhich
were so bad I wanted to scratch out my
eyes with a chisel and fill the bleeding
wounds with scalding butter ﬂavoring,
“Mary” was a refreshing change of pace.
It’sjust a fun movie.
Don’t take my word for it, though,
there’s just something about “Mary” that
you’ll have to see for yourself.

, or how I learned to stop ‘
' worrying and love jury duty

Phish’s dressing room. Never mind thathis

friend was a perfectly healthy 16 year-old,

boy, the defendant wanted us to believe that
he was merely exhibiting that famous “ghetto
hospitality” we’ve all heard so much about.

With the summations complete we re-
tired to thejury room for about five min-
utes, thirty seconds of which went to de-
bating the case and the rest of the time
going to bathroom breaks. It was nearly
lunchtime and we, the people, were hun-
gry, so the verdict came swiftly and unani-
mously: guilty on all counts. If it were
against the law to insult thejury’s intelli-
gence with lame defenses we would have
found him guilty ofthat, too.

But you know, all the jolly fun of cyni-
cism aside, the system did work for once.
An incredibly stupid criminal received a swift
yet fair trial. I guess thejury manager was
right when he articulated what makes our
courts work: “a juthtith thithtem for the
thitithenth, by the thitithenth.”

Yes, for one brief, shining moment, I was
“The Man.” lwas the Establishment. That‘s
the great thing about this country: eventu-
ally, every idiot gets a turn.

God Bleth America.

 

SEPTEMBER 21, 1998

‘won’t
- embarassment” but then became the first presi-

Congress declares war on
Clinton’s penis
Washington —— Con-
gress voted to declare war
on President Bill Clinton’s
penis in ajoint session held
earlier this morning. “That
petty tyrant is out of con-

the
me trol,” House Speaker Newt
Gingrich said. “We must

send a clear message that the American people
will not tolerate that kind of behavior from our po-
litical leaders. From our entertainers and sports
stars, sure, but not our politicians. Well, some
politicians, but not the president. Well, maybe JFK.
And FDR. And Lincoln, Harding, Johnson,
Chester A . . . well, the point is, notthis president.”

The war began this afternoon whena surgical
strike force consisting of Marines commandos and
surgeons parachuted into the White House. They
met with heavy opposition (i.e. Bill Clinton) but
were able to secure their objective of using smart
bombs to decimate their target.

Bill Clinton’s penis has been linked to a number
of terrorist activities over the years, including the
bombarding of Monica Lewinsky’s dress, the ter-

News
off

fictitious news from
The Looney B111

’ rorizing of Paula Jones and the impregnation of

Hillary. In apress conference Bill Clinton said (in a
remarkably high voice) that he is “glad lil’ Billy
be causing America any more

dent since McKinley to publicly admit that he
“hates this f"""*ing country and everyone in it."

Crack use still high among crackheads
New York—— A landmark study of over 1,200

A New York metropolitan area crackheads recently

conﬁrmed lawmakers worst fears —- that crack

. abuse remains as high as ever, despite stiffer drug
,» laws and improved police tactics. “Our study shows

that crack use remains steady at 100%,” said head
researcher Dr. Herschel Goldberg. The study shows
that 100% of crackheads have smoked crack at least
once in their lives, 100% have smoked it in the last
month and 100% were actually hopped up on rock
while taking the survey. When asked for a com-
ment, crackhead David Fredricks said, “Come on
man, just five bucks, I’ll pay you back tomorrow.”

Texas institutes “guns for bigger guns” trade

Austin —— Intrigued by the success of “guns for
cash” and “guns for toys” programs in getting
handguns off the streets in other areas, the Texas
legislature voted today to sponsor a statewide
“gunsfor bigger guns” deal. “It isimperative that
we get handgugqspoff the street,” said state Attor-
ney General Jed Houston, “and replace them with
ﬁrearms as needlessly oversized as our state’s
ego.” Lawmakers were concemed by statistics that
show that the average Texan only owns 17 guns,
many of which are handguns barely powerful
enough to blow the arm off a Mexican.

1

Monday Night Football

It ti o M r H R u

WednesdayNight DJ

, DJ Doug Panzer

HLlR?3[}.5kY

 

