 

11 BY ANDREW LATIMER
NEWs EDITOR

The job market might not have
dried up for the class of 2002, yet
times are not easy for career seekers.

Beverly T. Lori g, director of Ca-
reer Services, reported that the news
from last year’s graduating class
a isn’t dire, even if it is not all wine,

roses and signing bonuses.

As of June 6, about 30 percent of dotcombubble in1ate2000,
the 404 Students had already When they encounter
accepted job 05618, and 21 difﬁculties in securing jobs,
” percent decided to pursue most students delay their
post-gmdllate Studies. “I an- entry into the marketby con-
ticipated that the percentage tinuing their studies. “Typi-
Ofthose employed Would be cally, when the economy

g lower,” Lorig said.

“Since 1990-1991,
when it was a miserable job
market, the number of
those with jobs at cap-and-

‘ gown has ranged from 27 percent to
31 percent. So I was surprised.”

Lorig, a 20-year career counseling
veteran, remarked, “Would yoube overly
optimistic? That’s just not a wise ap-
proachforajobsearchthisyear. . . thisis
notthetirnetobetooconﬁdentoroocky.”

On—campus recruitment for busi-
ness, consulting and retail jobs, which
1 wasdownlastyear, isexpectedtofall
once again. One such recruiter, the scan-
dal-mired auditing ﬁrm ArthurAndersen
which took 5 students in 2001, will not
return, along withAccenture andAmeri-
can Management systems.

“Last spring was not a good time,
with the Enron disaster and seeing
(Andersen) irnpl ,” said Lorig. “We
q had graduates with positions that were
canceled. . . itwasverystrangelastyear.”

Today’s college students enjoyed
America’s longest sustained bull mar-
ket, which sparmed from 1992 until the
fall of2000. For some, athrivingeconomy
is the only one they’ve known.

Even so, it is still too soon to gauge
student attitudes accurately. The re-

Electric storm darkens downtown Lexington

Slow economy
narrows options

Class of 2002 adjusts to post-dotcom fallout
as increase in post-graduate studies expected

 

LORIG

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

~« NG-TUM

The student were of Wdlilfffgidff eeel lee Urrfeerrfh here 7897 (D Orr/fee ef: p/iz'.u//fr.eeler

spouse for campus recruitment will be
anearlyindicator, especially forthe hard-
hit banking, consulting and technology
applicants. “We’ll have a better sense
come November,” Lorig said.

Nothing can match the mood of the
class of 2000, with their multiple job of-
fers, generous signing bonuses and
great starting salaries. Many were wooed
by start up ventines, most of which have
evaporated with the bursting of the

goes sour, you’ll see gradu-
ate law school applications
go up,” noted Lorig.
OnceCareerServicesﬁn-
ishes gathering information
thisFebruary fortheirarrnual reviewofthe
previous year’s gaduating class, the job
marketpicture will become much clearer.
Class of 2001 data showed 65 percent of
the graduates were employed seven
months after receiving their diplomas.
Career Services recommends that
alumni and current seniors be persistent
and employ networlcingandalumni con-
nections to their fullest. The oﬂice ad-
vises any student to contact ﬁiends, fam-

 

 __ CV,No.V1l1
TUESDAY, SERIERIBER 24, 2002

JED BRO0KS/ The Ring-tr/m Phi

FEEL THE SPIRIT MOVE YOU. Shepherd Poverty Program Director Harlan Beckley (left) looks on as Sargent Shriver expresses his hopes for a united, peaceful world.

Shriver implores youth to embrace future, common humanity

ily, sports teams, ﬁaternities and honors
societies. The job search should begin
at the ﬁrst day of school for seniors, as
the ﬁrst employers visit campus within

V the ﬁisttwoweeks ofOctober.

One thing that remains constant
is the quality of the W&L student,
which Lorig equates to taking a “good
product to market.” According to her,
talented, determined college graduates
will always be in demand in any ﬁeld.

Lorig and her coworkers remain
unfazed by the employment climate
and said there was no need to panic.
Lorig stressed, “We’re up to the chal-
lenge this year.”

BY ANDREW LATIMER
\"E\ll/S EDITOR

Lee Chapel played host to its ﬁrst speaker of the
new school year on Sept. 17 when Peace Corps founder
and 1972 vice-presidential candidate R Sargent Shriver
took to the lectem with his talk, “Recollections and
Challenges: AHalf-Century of Fighting Poverty.”

The event, sponsored by the W&L President’s
Office, the Shepherd Poverty Program and the Con-
tact Committee, drew a diverse and lively crowd
that included university president Thomas Burish
and provost Laurent Boetsch.

While Shriver did mention some of his experi-
ences during the forty-minute speech, he reserved
the bulk of his words for his vision of the future, as

well as admiration for W&L’s own Shepherd Pov-
erty Program, headed by Prof. Harlan Beckley. “I hope
truthfully that (it) will be replicated around the United
States and around the world,” Shriver said.

Beckley appreciated the praise and stated that
“Mr. Shriver has devoted his entire life to alleviat-
ing poverty and working for international peace.
Washington and Lee students who become aware
of his great accomplishments and generous and
humble spirit will be inspired to know more about
how they can work to alleviate poverty and dimin-
ish conﬂict during their life times.”

Addressing the students of Washington and
Lee, Shriver said, “I wish I were you... You are in
the best place and the most qualiﬁed to make the
21st century what it should be.”

Central to Shriver’s View of the world were
themes of a common humanity with a common ex-
istence and common solutions. Advances in tele-
communications have enabled the possibility of
“mind-boggling” ﬂexibility and interdependence,
which he believes will lead people of different cul-
tures to appreciate each other.

Shriver stressed that with technology’s ben-
eﬁts have come greater threats to humanity’s de-
struction, which will bring the world to two choices:
peace and death. Thumping his fist, he urged,
“Work for peace, for peace, for peace.”

Dire predictions for the future aside, Shriver
said, “I have one quality, I’m hopeful.” To him, the

See SHRIVER, page 2

Banetbnngs

BY ANDREW LATIMER
NEWs EDITOR

The Lexington area received some relief from its
record drought on Sunday, but not without a price.

The lightning that accompanied yesterday’s heavy
rains has been blamed for the damage to at least two crucial
downtown Lexington transformers, a situation that lead to
a nearly three-hour blackout along Washington and N.
Randolph Streets starting at approximately 7:35 p.m.

Lexington Police presume a bolt hit a 7200-volt high-
tension power line somewhere on the system at approxi-
mately 7:35 p.m., prompting a massive surge.

Doppler radar indicated that up to 0.8 in. of rain fell

"within Lexington city limits, yet that will make only a

small dent in the 16 in. rain deﬁcit for the year.

While students on the main campus, fraternity houses,
sorority row and Virginia Military Institute only observed
ﬂickering lights, once they tried to drive through town they

discovered unlit traffic signals and unsafe intersections.

Police responded to one minor accident at the corner
of Washington and Jefferson Streets, but no other injury
to lives or property was reported as a result of the blackout.

Virginia Electric Power Company (VEPCO) was on the
scene shortly after the strikes, yet rain and a reduced Sun-
day staff slowed down efforts to pinpoint the problems with
the power grid. Jay Melvin, proprietor of University Clean-
ers, said that businesses were somewhat upset but coped
with the problem. The owners of the Southern Irm let diners
ﬁnish their meals by candlelight before being asked to leave.

Sgt. Torben Pedersen told of resident reports of
transformers on N. Randolph St. “shooting off sparks
like a roman candle.” He added that Sunday night’s com-
bination of grid failures “was a very unusual situation”
because its nature prevented rerouting of power.

The outage also interrupted work at The Ring-tum
Phi offices at 31 Washington St., delaying the release of
the issue by one day to Tuesday.

    

I jssié

MoRErHANMEi~:rs1HEEYE.Acriticalﬁiseinthetransfonnerbe1iind
University Cleaners overioaded Sunday, cuttingpower to parts of town

Budget concerns derailed Commons post office

   
  

(I MAIL CALL. Students will continue to pick up
theirmailat 10Lee Ave., just as they didin 1913.

University students will still have to trek to local office for their ma

BY JONATHAN WORTHAM
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee students can
expect to get their mail from the Lexington
post oﬂice for the foreseeable future. Plans
for a University post ofﬁce, which would
have been inside the University Commons,
have been a confirmed victim of budget
cuts, but not town intervention.

“Most of W&L is zoned as residential
aridcornmereial,”explainedBill Blatter,director
of Planning and Development for Lexington
The 1998 W&L master plan, which was ap-
proved by the Lexington Planning Commis-
sion, describedthe cornrnorisasa“90,000gross
sq. ft. building,” Blatter said.

The master plan, which is a compo-
nent of the institutional overlay, describes
new buildings, their size, and use. The
master plan includes “post office,” as one
of the uses of the Commons.

“Had they wanted to build a post of-
ﬁce,” said Blatter, “It would have been ac-
ceptable within their master plan.”

“You’d have to ask them,” said Lex-
ington Postmaster Larry Creamer, when
asked why the Commons Post ofﬁce was
not built. “We don’t have any control (over
whether they build a post office). From
what I understand, they decided they were
not going to do it.”

When asked if the proposed W&L post
office would negatively impact the Lexing-
ton post ofﬁce, Creamer indicated that rev-
enue lost from box rentals and counter ser-
vice would likely cause the post off1ce’s
budget to be cut.

According to Creamer, W&L engaged
in informal talks about acquiring his
facility’s basement mailboxes for placement
in the proposed post ofﬁce.

If a Commons post ofﬁce had been con-
structed, W&L would have been respon-

if as cost, not Lexington authorities, strike down school master plan

sible for stafﬁng and budgeting. “It would
have been similarto Vlvﬂ, said Creamer. VMI
has an on-campus mail facility that is staffed
by students and employees.

The post office’s current location en-
courages students to venture into town.
“It’s good for business,” said Blatter. The
post off1ce’s proximity to downtown and
the commercial strip along Nelson Street
probably results in a considerable amount
of student patronage.

“I like the post office,” senior Ann-
Bailey Lyrm said. “It’s quaint. It’s a W&L
traditon.”

Sophomore Andrew Dudley, however,
explained that “if Joseph Conrad was right,
and ‘what saves us is efficiency, that devo-
tion to eﬂiciency,’ an on-campus post of-
ﬁce would certainly be more convenient.”

University officials were not available

See Posr OFFICE, page 2

culture to W&L

BY KATIE HOWELL
EDITOR IN CHIEF

With Professor David Elms’ fellowship in the
American Psychological Society, the math departrnent’s
Beautiful Mind symposium, Professor Ken Van Ness’
bridge-strength plastic and the Alsos research website,
W&L has shown its status as an intellectual initiator.

Now the school is a cultural
initiator as well with Ballet
Shanghai’s U. S. debut on the
Lenfest Center’s Keller Theatre.

“I was really surprised that such
a group would come to W&L,” said
senior and Lenfest crewmember Neal
Willets. “Having apremiere ballet com-
pany from EastAsia come here is deﬁ-
nitely an honor for the school and city.”

The ballet made its first stop on the U.S. tour in
Lexington on Thursday and Friday nights with perfor-
mances of “The White-Haired Girl” and “Coppelia” re-
spectively. Lenfest Director Michael Gorman said the
shows progressed without glitch other than translation
and set-up problems.

“The scenery arrived in cases from China a few weeks
ago and had never been opened until this week,” Gorman
said. “The American crews had never seen the materials.
Also, the entire company only had two translators, so
there was a lot of hand gesturing, but their people were
great and our people were great. We all learned a lot.”

Gorrnansaid, however,thatthese problems wereexpected

“We have established a relationship with the
agency,” he said. “When they want to try out a new
attraction, they send them to us as a breaking-ground.”

Gorman said that the performance agency discounts
the performance price of such groups.

“The company arrived directly from China to Lex-
ington where they could try to shake out their problems
before continuing to bigger markets,” he said. “Because
we receive a better fee, we can just barely afford them if

GORMAN

See SHANGHAI, page 2

 

 

J/3.lv'lE§ hi.  .739’? 3;, ﬂit’ 5, 199.5: ll‘!
1‘InJ»£K()’i lll~:t§W'.L4“< ii ‘ ‘T ' l.‘.‘Nr"|G"ll3l'l‘{
' ' "   ‘-.r’.¢. .”—."M'5l.l

PAGE 2 ‘K
Sgp jg  

3l-:2.ll::=;:‘.-::,:i;ll§t

NEWS

Moretti delivers ‘Maps, Graphs, Trees’

21st Shannon-Clark lecturer discusses the geography of literature; attempts to introduce literary empiricism

  

ya Barrie, ntoitugtim Pa
New ENGLISH. Frank Moretti examined the
cartography of a selection of l-European novels.

BY SREYA Bananas
srarr WRITER

‘Maverick professor Franco Moretti presented
his theory of “distance reading" and the 21st Sh-
annon Clark lecture “Maps,Graphs,Trees :Ab~
stract Models for Literary History.”

Now teaching English at Stanford University,

 

Moretti, a graduate of the University of Rome,
has written several books, most recently the Atlas
of the European Novel l800— 1900.

In his introduction, English Department Head
James Warren described the s-cholar‘s work as “a
surprising investigation that produces questions
we could not anticipate."

In his talk, Morctti talked of introducing ele-
ments of the natural science into literary research.
including empirical research, wide—ranging data
tabulation, and collaboration with peers.

“I want to carry on the program of the En-
lightenment,” Moretti said. Part of his approach
is to eschew “close reading,” or intense exami-
nation of a single text, for his “distance read-
ing,” placing a work in its sociohistorical con-
text.

Close reading is the predominate method of
textual analysis in the United States.

Moretti’s Northen Auditorium lecture exam-
ined the utility of mapping in different novels.

Although mentioning a tripartate division of
village, province, and capital, the former was the
focus of Moretti’s talk.

Mary Mitford’s novel Our Village was the pri-

mary example. Morreti purported to show how the
self~sufficient village life creates a closed circle of
activity.

The village is a “drastic centralization of
space,” with the village a centre of gravity and the
people’s lives revolving around it, Moretti said.
Using supplementary evidence from John Galt’s
Annal’s of the Parish, Morctti attempted to show
how industrial development would later destroy
the villages circular inﬂuence.

The Shannon Clark Lecture, begun in 1982,
was endowed by an anonymous Washington and
Lee alumnus. The lecture honors the memories of
Edgar Finley Shannon, Department head of En-
glish from 1914 until his death in 1938, and Harriet
Mabel Fishburn Clark, the donor's grandmother
and advocate of the liberal arts system of educa-
tion.

“Every year the English Department nomi-
nates English scholars from across the world as
potential Shannon Clark lecturers.” Warren said.
“A speaker is chosen. and a formal invitation is
sent out.” Apart from being an all expenses paid
trip, speakers receive a very generous honorarium,
Warren said.

Fairpublicizes study abroad

BY DREW DAVENPORT
SHFF xvium

Thirty tables and a kaleido-
scope of flags lined Stemmons Plaza
last Thursday atwashington and
Lee’s annual Study Abroad Fair.
Showcasing a range of study abroad
options, the program attracted out-
side groups like the institute for
Education of Students and BUN AC .
W&I. also has alliances with other
colleges that allow students to cam
credit at foreign universities.

For example, New York Univer-
sity allows W&L students to study
at Prague, Paris, London, Madrid and
Florence, NYU representative Kate
Henderson said.

About 220 W&L students,
mostly sophomores and juniors,
went abroad last year, Director of In-
ternational Education William
Klingelhofer said.

The Study Abroad Fair
“seemed to be very popular,”
Klingelhofer said. “There was a lot
of interest among students.”

The most popular destinations
for Study Abroad are the United King-

dom, Australia, Spain, France, ltaly
and Latin America, Klingelhofer said.

“It is possible for a student to
study just about anywhere in the
world,” said Michelle Quizon, pro-
gram coordinator for the Office of
International Education.

“We work with other schools,
exchanges, and sponsor organiza-
tions,” Quizon. said.

Freshman Rob Armstrong at-
tended the Fair and is interested
in studying abroad, particularly in
France. Armstrong was impressed
with the available information.

“(The Study Abroad Fair) was
very informative and helpful, and
more rigorous than l thought it
would be,” Armstrong said.

W&L also presented its new
Global Stewardship program. The
program will allow students to in.-
tern around the world, and program
assistant Latha Dawson hopes it
will give students an international
perspective on their area of study.

“No matter (a student's) dis-
cipline, it is important to under-
stand that there is a global im-
pact,” she said.

Service hero speaks

SHRIVER, from page ‘i

consolidation of North America un-
der NAFTA, Europe under the EU
and the possibility of increased unity
in Asia are all encouraging signs.

The only thing truly missing from
today’s world, according to Shiiver, is vi-
sion. Following his speech, Shriver re-
marked to The Ring-Izmz Phi that today’s
generation “doesn’t realize what confi-
dence it should have.”

Even in the atmosphere of serious-
ness and the listeners’ venciation, Shiiver
preserved a tone of levity throughout
the speech. Making light of his age.
Shriver, 86, quipped, “If I misbehave in
some way, it is because I’m very old.”
However, his frequent and spirited ges-
ticulations told an entirely different story,
as his verve and energy were apparent
to the audience.

‘In addition to two standing ova-
tions, Shtiver received the gift of pock-
ctknife from a group of lo Peace Corps
alumni. The Swiss Army Knife, re-
garded as the most essential tool of
any Peace Corps volunteer, was en-
graved with the letters “WLU."

“We worked together to arrange
their presentation of themselves and
their symbolic gift aﬁerMr. Shriver’s lec-
 Beckley said.

Before the speech, Shtiver also re-
ceived oflicial recognition of his record
of public service from the university’s
Board of Trustees, as well as a letter
from former President Bill Clinton.

The trustees’ special resolution
took note of his legacy of working for
the good of the world, which started in

1947. Although his most famous
achievement was the 1961 formation and
subsequent directorship of the Peace
Corps under President John F. Kennedy,
he also created the Head Start Program,
the Job Corps, VISTA and the Oﬂice of
Economic Opportunity.

He has additionally served as am-
bassador to France from 1968 to 1970,
chaired the board of the Special Olym-
pics, and in 1994 was awarded thePresi-
dential Medal of Freedom.

Prof. Beckley praised Shriver’.-3 ef-
forts, calling him “an inspiration for any-
one who works to alleviate poverty. No
one has done more as a public servant in
order to diminish poverty.”

V/UOI’I’L2I’I.'J  P€A0udQ 0‘

SH  

4 Days Only!
Oct. 2-5 - 9 am-6 pm
16 N. Main St.

(the old Sunday’s Child store)

Values to $150.00

Fczrrrzous Ncmrze Bra

  $15-$50

Tucson’, Ssriianrn 24, 2002

Costs deliver blow
o campus post office

  

lllt(:r)l<.s/"IZreRz>gg4:rz:zl’iri

RETURN TO SENDER. Talk that the town had disallowed \V&_l. from  studenthboxcs did not pan out.

POST OFFICE, from page 1

for comment before press time. None-
theless, the W&L website, in a press
release dated October 22nd, describes
the Commons as a 50,000 square foot
facility, instead of the 90,000 square
feet that were planned for in the mas-
ter plan (1998).

“They (W&L) didn’t build (a
post office) because they didn’t
want to pay to staff it," said a
source that requested anonymity.
Creamer confirmed that campus
mail facilities fall under the complete

responsibility of their sponsoring
institutions.

Perhaps, the removal of the post
office from the Commons is a sign of
the times, rather than simply a matter
of budgeting. Plans had been devel-
oped in the late 1980s for an on—cam-
pus mail facility. The facility would
have handled much intra~campus
mail, as well as mail between stu-
dents and faculty. Nowadays, stu-
dents and faculty have easy access
to e—mail. At any rate, 10 Lee Avenue
will be the mail facility for W&.L.

Ballet indicative of cultural cachet

SHANGHAI, from page 1

we stretch our funds.”

The Washington and Lee Class
of 1964 Performing Arts Fund partially
funded last weekend ’s performance
along with the school itself in the first
of a series of three events this aca-
demic year.

“The ballet was acultural experience
that most would not be able to experi-
ence many other places,” Willets said.

Gorman said all seats for both
shows were completely sold out.

“We pmbab] y had about 850 people
total attend the event,” he said.

Many audience members liked the
contrasting performances of “The White-
I-laired Girl" and “Coppelia.”

"I actually liked the Chinese bal-
let (“The White-Haired Gir ”) better,”
Willets said. “It was atypical ballet,
dance~wise, but in the background
there was one person singing Chinese
the entire time. That added a lot. Plus,
the mystery of something different
probably appealed to a lot of people.”

Gorman also appreciated the dif-
ferent ballet styles.

“I was really pleased with the
event and the entire presentation,” he
said. “There was a nice contrast with

the Chinese piece against the West-
ern piece (“Coppclia”).”

Shanghai Ballet was not the
first cultural group to premiere in
Lexington. Gorman said three years
ago, the Lenfest Center brought in
the Moscow Ballet for a similar
event. He also hopes to have simi-
lar events in the future.

“l think the performance was
very worthwhile,” he said. “No per-
formancesiare ever exactly the same.
We are always‘ looking to have as
wide a variety of performances in the
Lenfest Center as possible with
what’s available and costs. We also
try to find out what students and fac-
ulty are looking for. For several years
there has been a strong interest for
bringing an Asian arts event in. I"vc
been keeping my eye out for one over
the past couple of years.”

Crew and audience alike felt the
performance was a success.

“The ballets were incredible,”
Willets said. “The level of perfor-
mance and the ability of the dancers
as well as their dedication showed
that years of training and labor had
gone into making them what they are.
it was amazing that they could do
something so hard so flawlessly.”

Fraternities . SI|l'0l'iIiBS
ﬂllllls Q sturlem arouns

Earn $1,000-$2,000 this semester with a proven CarnpusFundraiser
3 hour fundraising event. Our programs make fundraising easy
with no risks. Fundraising dates are ﬁlling quickly, so get with
the program! It works. Contact CampusFundraiser at (888) 923-
3238, or visit www.campusfundraiser.com

Monday

Tuesday

Thursday
Friday
. Saturday

 

Grand Opening Sept. 23-28
DAILY SPECIALS

25% off T-shirts
W&L Faculty and Staff

Mon-25% off entire purchase

25% off Hats and Visors
Wednesday 25% off Sweatshirts

25% off Shorts and Long Pants
25% off Jackets

25% off Golf and Oxford Shirts

Register to Win Nickel Creek Tickets
Theater at Lime Kiln Saturday, October5

15 W. Washington St.
464-3000

 

I

3'

‘4

 

3

 

TUESDAY, SEl’I'EMBER 24, 2002

SlE}ltKlil§I)lilDlTORlAL

And there was born to the University
Commons, and they wrapped him up
in swaddling clothes

The Phi approaches the University
Commons Building with fear and trem-
bling. Truly, an almost religious awe must
settle upon all students when they con-
template this shrine to interpersonal so-
cialization.

The Commons will heal all. It will erase
divisions between students, miraculously adjust-
ing the independent-Greek ratio to everyone’s

And it will be a place of true learning,
where the ringing voices of young scholars
bounce off the walls of this Fooze—B all-decked
Academy.

And hearty, delicious meals will be
regularly served up by the new Dining
Hall and the (is it French?) Emporium
Café.

What’s more, the new Student Health
Services will ensure a steady stream of
reformed alcoholics and lepers made
clean.

Not only that, but environments like the
Chavis Board Room will pay testimony to our
school’s rich heritage of racial diversity and
tolerance. Truly, if nothing else, this new Com-
mons will give a voice to those too often left
unheard. No one will be marginalized any
more.

However, the new building will not just
reshape the intellectual and social fabric of
our university. There will be room for play
as well. Yes, look for a “commons room”
with a fireplace, piano and extensive seat-
ing.

Security and Career Services Ofﬁces will
keep students safe as they land their dream
job.

In fact, incoming freshmen may be
tempted to stake out a puce-colored couch and
never leave. Like the Minoan labyrinth, the

Commons will host generations of wandering,

past students holding impromptu alumni meet-
ings in its halls.

Nor will students will not have to leave the
Commons when they die.

The Powers That Be have graciously
assented to grant the religious among us
a meeting room—that can be converted
into a chapel! For years, everyone has
been talking about the startling omission
of a University chapel. If only we had an
historic, attractive, distinctive place of
worship. Or if Lexington had a church or
two. Well, the Commons has given us a
place to pray.

So let’s all offer a prayer of thanks to the
university administration, for having the fore-
sight, and the courage, to solve all of our prob-
lems in one fell swoop.

THE RiNG—TUM PHI

PINIONS —

  

llvlRANNAEHvlLlIAH
OHnroNs EDITOR -
Er\l»\ll:I\liEIl\lllILilil@\ll/lll.El)ll

Secularists harm First Amenent

The First Amendment states
“Congress shall make no law respect-
ing an establishment of religion, or
prohibiting the free exercise thereof.”
This means that Congress does not
have the power to force religion on
anyone. It does not mean that the ju-
dicial system must protect people from
the inﬂuence of religion if the gov-
ernment is involved in even the most
rniniscule way.

Today, the separation of Church
and State has come to mean, not that
the government is forbidden from
adopting an ofﬁcial government reli-
gion which everyone is forced to prac-
tice as the First Amendment was origi-
nally intended, but that it is the
govemment’s responsibility to make
sure that any individual with the
slightest inclination against religion
is freed from its oppression if the gov-
ernment is in any way involved, fed-
erally, or even locally.

While people are banned from
prayer in government owned build-
ings and from using public funds for
anything that might be viewed as hav-
ing a remotely reli-
gious aspect, equally
vigilant and indoctri-
nated environmental-
ists and political organizations receive
millions of dollars in government fund-
ing to help spread and indoctiinate
others with their ideas.

Schools are allowed to teach chil-
dren that terrorists are attacking the
United States because their religion
tells that that they should, but when
a teacher goes so far as to teach the
passages from the Koran and show
in greater detail the reasoning behind
the terrorist actions the teacher can
be accused of advocating the terror-
ists’ point of view. Other important
current events are explained in the
vaguest terms possible so as not to
offend anyone. This lack of under-
standing by American’s publicly edu-
cated youth is not limited to the prob-
lems facing the United States, but they
remain largely uninformed about the
issues facing Israel’s relationship and
the Palestinian Authority, and even

 

V Bosnia.

The interpretation of the reli-

FREE THOUGHTS
RYAN 0wEN ‘O3

. . _ . . (DlJRIB\((FWWW._GOO(1)‘
STANDING TALL. Despite the ever increasing attacks on our liberties by liberal interest
groups, Lady Liberty continues to represent the values we hold dear.

gious aspect of the First Amendment
has recently had a constant presence
in the mass media. Every issue with a
remotely religious
connotation seems
to be blown out of
proportion, from
prayers before school board meetings
to the role of religion in the pledge of
allegiance, and even in health care
since religions have adopted abortion
as such an important aspect of their
faith. Issues that may not have ap-
pealed to the public in the past sud-
denly take on great importance when
a biased media constantly pushes
them.

Often the misinterpretation of the
laws is effectively and reasonably
skirted. School boards can change
their meeting times so that they meet
ﬁve minutes later than they did previ-
ously, yet anyone who wishes may
gather five minutes before the meet-
ing in order to pray. People who ﬁle
false vigilante lawsuits, such as
Michael Newdow’s effort to prevent
his daughter from hearing the words
“Under God” in the Pledge of Alle-
giance at school, seek not to uphold
the principles of the First Amendment,
but to exploit the overly subjective

interpretations of the Constitution our
justice system currently over engages
in. The words “Under God” obviously
no longer hold meaning, as they have
become more something we say than
something we believe.

The phrase “shall make no law”
has seemingly come to be interpreted
as do nothing, as many of the com-
plaints are against general practices
and not laws. Thus we should remem-
ber that the Constitution also says,
“or prohibiting the free exercise
thereof.” By banning groups from use
of public buildings based solely on
their purpose is a direct violation of
the law, not just the spirit. We cannot
and should not prevent religious or-
ganizations from existing, as they are
legally entitled and often serve the
public good.

I do not intend to take the side of
the religious groups and people who
feel they should have the right to con-
gregate, pray, and generally be free to
do whatever they wish whenever and
wherever they please, nor do I intend
to say that these religious groups
are infringing upon others with the

See RELIGION, page 4

Diversity education inadequate

Like most freshmen, by the end of orientation I was
excited about beginning classes, yet the question that
plagued me is one that I am sure plagued my fellow class-

mates, and that question is, “Am I truly

ready for what I am about to experience?”
Of course, one must take a certain amount
of personal ownership over the fact of
whether or not one is prepared. However,

FREsHMAH“l’ERsPEcTivE
DOUGIAS ALLEN ‘06

and the Student—Faculty Hearing Board, and the second was
devoted solely to the Honor System. By this time, the inten-
tions of the orientation had become painfully obvious.

I believe that it is accurate to say that

orientation does nearly everything that it is
supposed to do, and that it was a success.
I think that more discussion could have been
raised concerning the issue of diversity, con-

 
 

"l-':;rz.=':t;':'o>: N: 5.i.:= i;~<it'rv;.':‘iP

Editors in chief Katie J. Howell
Matthew B. McDermott
News Editor AndrewA.Latimer
Opinions Editor ImranNaeemullah
Arts & Life Editor Catherine C. Guy
Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin
Asst. Sports Editor Dave Crowell
Photo Editor Jeb Brooks
Photographers McQueen Calvert

Tallie Jamison
Paul Seifert
Thomas Worthy
Henry Grimball

THE

Business Manager
Asst. Business Manager
Circulation Director

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-

sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi- -

cations Board elects the Editors in chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible subrnis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

Annual Subscription Rate: $35

 

orientation is used as a tool to make the transition from
high school to college an easier one. So, how effective of
a tool is orientation? As a freshman, retrospectively speak-
ing, I can say with conﬁdence that orientation did a nota-
bly good job of preparing all

sidering the fact that many see the lack of diversity on carn-
pus as a problem. It would please me to see the issue of
diversity addressed earlier in orientation, and not placed as
the dreaded last event on the last day of orientation. I ap-

plaud the university for address-

freshmen and new students for
the college experience.

After moving all of our be-
longings into our respective
dorms on August 31st, we were
immediately introduced to the
Honor System in our residence
hall meetings with our dorm coun-
selors. We were told what is and
what is not an Honor System vio-
lation. We were also warned that
there is only one punishment for
being found guilty of a violation
of the Honor System: one’s ex-
pulsion from the university. On
the second day of orientation,
President Burish officially welcomed us to the university.
In his address, we were once again made aware of the
greatness, tradition, and uniqueness of the W&L Honor
System. On the third day of orientation, the University Pro-
vost and Deans addressed the entire class of 2006 and the
Honor System was brought up once more. There was no new
information provided about the Honor System, but its impor-
tance was stressed as something not to be overlooked. On
the fourth day of orientation, Tuesday September 3”‘, two
very important gatherings took place. The ﬁrst was concem-
ing the Executive Committee, the Student Judicial Council,

Cownrn OF THE WEEK:

®l'KIBY G‘ WW/WZG(X)G.ECI)M

    

ing the issue the way that they did,
but the timing was wrong. I do un-
derstand that there were those who
had great discussion, and that the
entire affair was a success. How-
ever, my discussion group was not
so successful, and as a rrrinority
on this campus who will be dealing
with the issue head—on for the next
four years, I just was not satisﬁed.

Nonetheless, by the time of the
convocation and presidential inau-
guration, I personally began to feel
a part of the W&L community. If
this is so, then why was I plagued
with nervousness and apprehen-
sion? I can only credit those feelings to the fact thatl am like
the typical W&L student, an overachiever who only wants
to do the best that he or she can possibly do. There is no
doubt in my mind, though, that by the end of orientation,
every freshman and new student had an understanding of
just how special our honor system is. We all understood that
any type of violation of this system is strictly forbidden, and
will result in our immediate withdrawal from the university.
Once one understands and accepts these ideas, then and
only then can one be considered a Washington and Lee man
or woman.

ALL WET. Members of the Class o£°r2o‘(V>‘f)”a’§ffi

Dean Watkins assembled after the First Annual
Bridge Jumping activity.

  Gerharrl,Schrode ,  
German Chancellor Gerhard Schroder won re-election to another four-year term this past Sunday. That’s too bad for Germany, and
too bad for the world. Schroder is an unabashed panderer to interest groups, rallying against U.S. invasion of Iraq at the last minute in
order to pick up votes from liberal Germans. The Bush administration, quite rightly, reacted coolly to Schroder’s re-election, and did not
botherto mentionhimby name or congratulate himin arecent armouncement This is in marked contrast to the hearty felicitations offered
French President Jacques Chirac, a center-right politician, uponhis re-election in May. Those surprised by this seemingly spiteful move ‘
may consider the words of Schroder’s justice minister, Herta Daeubla-Grnelin, who accused the Bush administration of seeking war with
Iraq in order to distract from domestic issues. Her exact words, in fact, were these: “That’s a popular method. Even Hitler did that.” :
Comparing President Bush to the man responsible for the ravaging of Europe and the death of countless millions of irmocent  and '
soldiers is absolutely ridiculous coming from anybody. Coming from the mouth of aliigh-ranking ofﬁcial in a supposed ally is simply j
frightening, and made all the more so considering that Schroder didn’t denounce the statement. Here’s to hoping that Schroder’s f

«have given me the brush off.

Speaking traditioprim
declines further
will each W&L class

Despite the exhorlations of class t-shirts,
fewer people practice Gen. Lee’s legacy-

.\.-rA.¢.;.;:a'.I\IsAA.

A ‘a as.-n.u_n.1:;,:

There is no “SPEAK” written on the back on thei.
Freshman Orientation t—shirt I received as a freshman. ‘
There was no need for it back then Instead, the back’
of my shirt had a white Trident on it, roughly the size r
of Graham—Lees,

     

   
on campus would 2 WWEAILA COEN ‘04

say “hello” to me
on a fairly regular basis.

Unfortunately, the classes of 2005 and 2006 do‘
own shirts that bear this very necessary verb, and as
a junior, I have noticed a steady decline in one of
W&L’s most important traditions. If the administra-
tion were to give the ax to the Mock Convention, FD
or the hallowed Honor System, W&L students would
be angrier then they would have been if Al Gore be-
came president. However, the verbal apathy that is
destroying our speaking tradition (yet continues to
be touted by admissions as a selling point) seems to
go unnoticed and needs to be addressed by some-
one.

Washington and Lee is a school known for its
friendly student body. When someone who you don’t
know very well takes the time to smile and say “hello,”
you instantly feel a little bit better, about both the school
you have chosen
to attend and
yourself.

When some-
one does not
even display the
simple courtesy
to respond to a
simple hello, I
cannot help but
feel discouraged
about the lack of
‘southern hospi-
tality’ that ini-
tially drew me to
this school. I will
admit, when I’m
at home in Bos-
ton, I restrain my-
self from greeting
any and all people I run into in public places, yet I feel
that the small southern community of Lexington and
the even smaller microcosm of W&L are both condu-
cive to such courteous behavior.

W&L is the sort of small school where if you
sneeze, everyone on campus knows the where,
when, why and how of this alleged sneeze, five"
minutes later. It’s safe to say that even if you don’t ,
know someone’s name, you either have seen him.’
or her before or will see them again in the future. 
Since we all see so much of each other, its extremely 5
rude not to acknowledge one another as we pass:
on the Hill. I

I am not advocating anyone to start greeting?
large groups of people en masse with continuous;
hellos, but I for one am sick of trying to say “hi” V
to the one person within a ten foot radius of me in:
that construction area and having him or her pur— Z
posely avoid eye contact. Have the students ati
this school become so socially awkward that we?
cannot even verbally recognize each other in the;
spirit of informal camaraderie? Even professors:

it .

THE FOUNDER. Roben(El4Lee would
surely not approve of the decline in
the Speaking Tradition.

It’s gotten to the point where I will gladly ac- 1
cept a curt nod from someone, since it’s a lot friend- ,
lier than the grunt/scowl combination I received.
from someone the other day. Wearing sunglasses;
on the Hill has become crucial so that I can dis-
creetly roll my eyes to the point where my con-
tacts are about to fall out after the third person in
a row I’ve passed has completely ignored the
speaking tradition.

W&L is a small school ensconced in tradi-
tion, something that sets us apart from other col-
leges and universities. If students applied the
same fervor they apply to Alumni Weekend,
Foxfield races and the upcoming Homecoming
festivities to the speaking tradition, there would
be no need for me to even write this article. Out
of basic school spirit, I implore the classes of
2006, 2005, 2004, and 2003 for that matter, to speak
up and preserve the gentility that has been a way
of life at Washington and Lee since time imme-
morial.

 
   

conservative opponent, Edmund Stoiber (who barely lost). was 11' ght when he said that Schroder’s government won’t last long.

 

 

    

' K.\«. at rt: l-‘*2 it

_ _     _Oi3iN1oNs
Militant feminists threaten

golf club, personal freedoms

PAGE 4

 e"

i+iotocoLiursx'orwW.c<xx;r.EcoM
BYGONE RELICS. Despite the enormous gains made by women’s rights groups in the past-century, such as these civil rights
activists from the l960’s, certain women’s groups today ﬁght for unnecessary causes. They fail to realize that the battles of

yesteryear need no longer be fought. They are, in essence, preserving bygone relics, ideas which have already been implemented.

 

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2002‘

Brett Ieams to speak Eng

During my time in the worker’s
paradise that is China, I’m residing at
Beijing Foreign Studies University, an
institution wholly dedicated to edu-
cating Chinese students to work with
and in the outside world. In fact, ev-
ery student in Chinese schools, and
especially those at BFSU, must study
English. Most I have met speak it
pretty well— many have taken seven
or more years of the  P
language. 

China is fasci— if
nated by English. All
government signs are printed in both
languages and any company wishing
to enhance its products’ appeal just
slaps a sentence or two on the pack-
aging. Needless to say, these at-
tempts are not always successful.

Across the street (meaning
across six lanes with an elevated ex-
pressway in the center, which is al-
ways choked with buses, taxis, bi-
cycles and pedestrians) from campus,
for example, one can shop for school
supplies at Oﬁce [sic] Max. The prod-
ucts’ packaging advertises their qual-
ity. One spiral notebook is “the better
business communication.” Another
claims “The number 12 is sweet—I
live to hear your voice at midnight.”
A third is “For 1000 years new hope.”
Why else would anyone buy a note-
book? In fact, it’s “the most con1fort-
able writing pad you have ever run

  

   Liaii;¢riiicHiii;iii
 BRE;'F_1§,1.1.<_\W'fi.).‘l,.-

into. You’ll feel like writing with it all
time.” Be careful, you might become
addicted.

Next door, check out the selec-
tion of DVD’s the U.S. Copyright of-
fice and Hollywood hate so much.
How about all three G0dfather’s for
only $3.50? Perhaps, Harry Potter, the
back of which boasts the blurb for an-
other movie: “Jackson pollacke’s is
the Greatest living
fainter in the uniuec
states . . . Hope ev-
’ erybody can watch
this film quick, since that you maybe
ﬁnd a different ﬁle, another world, let’s
go to see quickly.”

Maybe Ocean ’s Eleven, billed as
“Greta Nosferatu’s Leading Lady!”

How about Star Wars: Attack of
the Clones, “Improbity trade the fed-
eral strike against the nape of the star
the empress ten years, day that own
the not of the common run power line
peaceful anner the gold grow upped
and become a hero juedy warrior.”
Your guess is a good as mine.

Finally, try Quills, “a cademy
ward winncrs geoffrey rush and
midhad cany jom . . . rush gived a
tough de force percepaer for mance
as history’s most rnfmans sexnal ad-
venturer . . .”

Next stop, the department store
up the street. A shirt everyone
should own boldly proclaims “I

ish, the Chinese way ‘

LOVE TRANCE, DRUM N’ BASE

AND PUNK BUT POP MUSIC IS r‘

VERY SUCKS, ESPECIALLY BOY
BAND WHICH MAKE ME WANT
TO PUKEAND SOIVIETIMES IDO.”

Truer words were never written. A

Speaking of which, one can pur-
chase a pack of Sanai brand Puke-
playing cards that is. Other styles
of T-shirt include, the “100% feel,”

“Naturally Jo-Jo” and “I never stop »

loving.”

Wander downstairs to the su-
permarket and after picking up your
eel, beef intestines and fish eye-
balls, why not buy some meat ﬂoss
biscuits, or “Big Eat— All Day Break-
fast in a Can.” Wash it all down
with some WaHaHa spring water,
Qoo orange drink, Ice Dew, or even
Jim Beam & Cola, pre-rnixed, in the
can!

Late nights, the place in Beijing
for foreigners to be is on Nanjie in the
Embassy District. Whet your whistle
at Durty Nellie’s, a “real” Irish pub,
Pure Girl, One Bar, Rainbow Time, or
Nashville, for a slice of Tennessee.
Closer to school, try out M’Adanna,
Tony’s Bar, Coffee Salon, or Magic

Rock. What’ll you drink, how about a .

B-57, grasshoper, nanhatten, or
Budweeser?

But hey, at least they’re trying.
Beijing English is a helluva lot better
than my Chinese.

Womens group takes aim atAugusta
National Golf Clubs membership requirements

This fall, as the golf season comes to an end, an
issue which has plagued sports news for the past four
months ought to follow suit. Since mid—June, Dr.
Martha Burk, chairman of the NCWO (N a-
tional Council of Women’s Organizations),
has aggressively lobbied for Augusta Na-
tional Golf Club to admit a woman mem-
ber. She has argued that as the host of
the nation’s premier golf event, the Masters, Augusta
bears a responsibility to discourage fervently discrimi-
nation of any kind. Hootie Johnson, chairman of the
club, has adamantly refused to yield to the group’s
constant threats of sponsor, player and television boy-
cott. He has refused even to discuss the club’s mem-
bership policy, and added that any change “will not
come at the point of a bayonet.”

This debate, or, perhaps more accurately, debacle,
is a classic example of a situation blown grossly and
incorrectly out of proportion. Simply put, Dr. Burk has
a very poor argument, which represents nothing more
than histrionics and aggressive, misplaced feminism.

First of all, Augusta National, as a private entity,
has the legal right to discriminate against women mem-
bership. Realizing this, Dr. Burk has attempted to dem-
onstrate the moral questionability of Augusta’s exclu-
sive membership policy.

However, the fact that Augusta chooses to main-
tain an all male membership in no way indicates ethi-
cal foul play. There is absolutely nothing inherently
wrong or evil with creating a club or organization that
exists solely for one sex. Examples of private institu-
tions with sexually exclusive membership are every-
where. In fact, as pointed out in Rick Reilly’s recent
Sports Illustrated column, a golf club in Toronto per-
mits only women memberships. Doesn’t a club which
contains only males or only females simply reﬂect the
desire of its members to have the choice to spend time
with people who share a common bond? “Our mem-
bers are people who enjoy each other’s company and
the game of golf,” Mr. Johnson stated in a press re-
lease. W&L, for instance, has fraternities and sorori-
ties. The absurdity of this situation could be com-
pared to a group making a fuss out of the sexually
exclusive aspect of Greek life.

The relationship between Augusta’s membership
policy and hosting of the Masters would be perti-
nent only if it somehow used the tournament to pro-

   

mote all male propaganda and sexist remarks. But noth- ~

ing of the sort occurs. Contrastingly, Augusta openly
supports women’s rights and even supports the
NCWO. As Mr. Johnson remarked, “We are not un-
mindful of the good work undertaken by Dr. Burk’s
organization in global human rights, Social Security
reform, reproductive health, education, spousal abuse
and workplace equity, among others. We are there-
fore puzzled as to why they have targeted our pri-
vate golf club.” In addition, the club discriminates

against women only in membership and not in play-
ing of the course. Last year, for example, women
played over a thousand rounds of golf at Augusta.
Throughout this saga, Dr. Burk has acted in an
excessively contentious fashion. She aggressively
pressured the Master’s television sponsors to boy-
cott to the point that Augusta voluntarily dropped
them all and will cover the cost itself. In addition,
she asked CBS to refuse to televise

 CORNER the Masters. Of course, CBS ﬂatly
DONNY BANKS ‘06 g

declined. She has even pressured the
players themselves to abstain from
participating in the 2003 event. Will
any of them actually boycott? Let’s be serious.

Through all of her extreme undertakings in re-
gard to this essentially insignificant matter, Dr. Burk’s
only intends to create a sensationalistic stir by pre-
senting specious arguments that make the members
of Augusta National appear as insensitive bigots.
She has tried to create an environment which associ-
ates supporting Augusta’s stance with sexism. But
this is entirely unfair and wrong. Supporting Augusta
on this issue simply implies an understanding that
an all male club is legal and perfectly acceptable. She
falsely assumes that an all male club must be sexist.
Ironically, she is doing more of an injustice to women
than is, putatively, Augusta by focusing too much of
her time on this non issue and thus limiting the pub-
licity she can give to truly significant, pressing mat-
ters for women. As tour player Scott Verplank suc-
cinctly put it: “Why is she worried about a lady that’s
worth 2 billion being a member at a golf club? If she’s
really worried about advancing women’s rights, she
should be in Afghanistan helping people that are
treated like animals.”

I, for one, feel sorry for Augusta National for its
position as the victim of an overzealous, irrational
political activist. I admire the club for obstinately
resisting to concede to an illogical, ad hominem at-
tack on their private club which has a legal and even
ethical right to choose its members as it sees fit. I
only hope that the liberal media will cease to per-
petuate this matter which ought never to have made
it to this stage.

OPPOKIUNISTIC
ZEA101‘.Blindedby
her own pursuit of
power,Martiia
Bud: is attempting
to force Augusta to
take actions it need
not

 

Pl-l0l0(DURlESYOl-‘ Ww':coocrr.coM

RELIGION: secularists undermine its practice

RELIGION, from page 3

rights they have been guaran-
teed. As with so many other issues
we as Americans are faced with
both sides are right, and both sides
are wrong.

Organized religion must realize
when they are intruding into the lives
of those who do not share their beliefs
and value systems. These organiza-
tions need to take some self—ir1itiatives
and make their best attempt not to in-
terfere in government unless the harm
is inﬂicted directly upon the church. It
is not their place to protect the unborn
children of people who believe that an
abortion is the mother’s choice.

The church need better worry
about protecting the lives of its mem-

bers, in seeing that they are not emo-
tionally harmed in a way many con-
sider to be worse than death.

In order to protect organized reli-
gion from itself, they must also realize
that just as they wish to monitor and
inﬂuence the government, the govem-
ment sometimes feels it is necessary
to look over their shoulders to ensure
that they are not taking advantage of
their protected social status.

Religious organizations need to
be willing to take the first step in both
these matters as they are of utmost im-
portance, and it is more easily initiated
from their side of the confrontation.

The government itself is not able
to initiate these same concentrated
decisions, as it does not have a con-
stant leadership that is able to inﬂu-

ence all other braches due to its
changing and federalist nature as
well as the structure of the justice
system. However, it is the responsi-
bility of each and every individual
citizen to make the decisions that lead
to the best outcome for everyone;
obviously this is too much to ask.

Yet a change for the better
would be possible if the media were
to use its ability to apply societal
pressures and change American
opinion, not just in the way that
leads to the best ratings or the
most self— glorification.
In evolving in this manner the
country would be better off, as the
number of frivolous lawsuits with
costs borne by the government
and its taxnavers is reduced.

Al Gore needs

Nearly two years have passed since the Presiden-
tial election debacle in Florida in which for thirty—six
long days, Americans were just on edge about who
would become the nation’s 43"‘ President. As we saw
the electoral and the “legal” process grind its way out
in the Sunshine State, I could vividly remember the
plea from then-Vice President Al Gore to “count every
vote in order to not undermine the voice of the people.”
“The voices of the people have spoken and I am ready
to be their President-elect,” said then—  _
Governor George W. Bush of Texas  
readily appealing on the TV. I was out—  1‘.
raged but relieved at the 5-4 Supreme 
Court decision to halt the recount ef-
forts — for the Court for giving a blind judgment to
situation that, in my opinion, was not in their jurisdic-
tion but knowing that there was finality in the matter.
On January 20 of last year, my heart went out to the
Gore/Lieberman ticket for being on the outside look-
ing in.

How do I feel about President Bush? I think he is
an average President. I do agree with him on the stances
of education and with proposed changes to welfare
reform. We must leave no child left behind and must
produce self-sufficient Americans provided if the
changes are not counterproductive and based on rea-
sonable evidence and total bipartisan support. I would
also like to commend the President for his effective
leadership during the terrorist attacks on September
11, 2001.

Now, with my pleasantries out of the way, this
Administration has to look at the present status of
our nation. A sagging economy, questionable
stances on the environment (not to mention civil
liberties) and their apparent rule bending of the ac-
counting reforms that both parties agreed upon in
light of the scandals taking place with corporate

ﬂ

  

 

another chance

giants such as Enron, WorldCom, and Qwest have i

cast a serious doubt on this upbeat administration.

In order for the President to garner his reelection, ‘
he has to come more to the center on issues that are '
presently plaguing this country as we speak. I fully 

understand that the present economic slowdown
that occurred during the Clinton Administration but

the Bush Tax Plan has not worked yet in providing '

gradual economic relief. We need a more balanced
view coming from an Administration

j_.   and its President who campaigned on

his popular bipartisanship results in

  106 

The question that the Democratic
Party must answer in due time is, “Does Al Gore
deserve a chance to become the Presidential nomi-
nee in 2004?” My answer? Yes! For one, he has ma-
jor name recognition that should allow him some
‘ maneuvering room in the crowded field in the Demo-
cratic primaries. Second, ifI got up every morning
knowing that I won the popular vote by over a half-
million votes, do you think I would be sitting on my
derriere come 2004? Gore has been very visible in
the news questioning as well as voicing his opinion
about the apparent neglect of the working people
and their priorities in exchange giving the “power-
ful” access to hear their needs. The only thing that
Gore must do in order to seal up his bid to make
1600 Pennsylvania Avenue his place of residence is
to have Tennessee, West Virginia, Arkansas (my
home state), and a Midwestern state (possibly Ohio)
fall under his column. He has to appeal more to the
southern voters in order to assure this scenario of
happening. The first three states mentioned have
been Democratic strongholds for years during presi-
dential elections. If not, let us get ready for Part II
of the Bush Administration. Good luck, Al.

Men’s and Women’siSportswear,    
Outerwear, and Fly Fishing Products    

Now Available in Lexington!

Only at: ’ V
Reel Time Fly Fishing 8: Outfitter
23 West Washington St.
Lexington, VA 24450
462-6100
www.reeltimeflyfishing.com

 4. ~U$ﬂbA‘§!.eO-lIhoﬁi‘uL@fA Jt.0i\\lEIa.-itlﬁﬁi-.k.=2'rn! OPJGM-.l..r".§:iDI. 3\ o&l<I$ﬂi 

l

 

 

  

s
PAGE 5

RTS

 

Pi

fl , Ann‘&Lii?i€Ennr>R
 «7d"{W>»W»r>V _i""»W"ir»7 7  ,7 WW   if if 7 7 E\l\llj(}L’Y(I@\\l1’.liDl'
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2002

Tillil R.lN'(%-’i"Ulvl.

  

L.\liil7.iti.\l£l..bLl

Panhellenic plans increased pre—recruitment activity for the fall
Dinner at the sorority houses introduces freshmen and upperclassmen women, but meets with mixed opinions

BY MCQUEEN CALVERT
srirr WRITER

Sorority recruitment is off and
tunning once again. Unlike men
participating in fraternity
recruitment, women involved with
sorority recruitment are forced to
have in accordance with very strict
‘rules. Upperclassmen sorority
women and freshmen potential
members are not allowed to exchange
money or buy each other presents,
(and all rush related events must be
dry. Also, upperclassmen are not
allowed to talk to freshmen about
other sororities in any way that could
be construed as derogatory, nor are
they allowed to express an interest
in a particular freshmen as a potential

member.
As a result, many freshmen

ifeel justifiably confused about

sorority recruitment. They receive
guidance from Rho Chis, who
temporarily deaffiliate from their

‘sororities and act as impartial and

compassionate counselors to the
freshmen.

This year, the Panhellenic
Council, which acts as the governing

!body for Washington and Lee’s ﬁve

sororities, decided to plan more
activities for the freshmen girls during
informal rush.

In past years, these activities were
quite limited and took place only on
rare occasion. Two years ago,
Panhellenic sponsored ‘Meet the
Greeks’, which occurred onaThursday

,1 afternoon. Interested freshmen women

met with upperclassmen in sororities
in front of Doremus and were given
snacks. Also, upon the dedication of
the houses in October, 2000, an open

‘house was held in which freshmen

could enter the houses for the first and
last time before formal rush. Last year,
‘Meet the Greeks’ was a one evening
affair in which freshmen were given
tours of the houses and given the
opportunity to meet upperclassmen.
This year, however, there will be
several events in the upcoming

-1 weeks of fall term, which will occur

in order to give the women a chance
to meet and become better
acquainted in an non—party or
academic atmosphere.

Panhellenic held a workshop last
March called ‘Something of Value’, in
which participants discussed issues
that many Washington and Lee females,

I and particularly freshmen girls, dealt

with. Since freshmen girls complained
about not being able to meet many older
girls, at least in a sober environment,
this new plan was decided on.

The first event of the event
of the fall was last Thursday
night. The freshmen were divided
up into five groups, by their hall,

and each group went to a different
sorority house for a sit down
dinner. The sorority girls were all
split up, so that each of the five
sororities was represented equally
at each house.” This event allowed
the freshmento meet some girls
from each sorority in a relaxed,
sober environment, as well as a
peek into sorority life. They got
to see the houses, and enjoy the
food, which in no way compares
to what they have been fasting on
in the D—Hall!

Panhellenic Council recruitment
chair and junior Mary Butler Stone
said that the idea to expand the
“Meet the Greeks” process is due
to the interest of last year’s
freshmen class, who felt intimidated
by rush and inadequately prepared
by the one “Meet the Greeks”
function held last fall. She feels that
the evening was, overall, a success.
“I’m getting a lot of positive
feedback from the freshmen. They
really enjoyed having the chance to

see the houses and eat a good
meal.” She is pleased with the event
and looks forward to similar success
with later functions.

Despite the good intentions of all
involved, some of the participants were

not enthusiastic about the outcome of .

evening’s activities. Junior and active
sorority member Maren Garval stated
that “I think that it was a contrived
social setting that introduced the
awkwardness of formal rush earlier
than was necessary. It was
uncomfortable for both the actives and
the freshmen.” She does not feel that
the dinner was particularly productive.

The next event is scheduled for
the first of October, and hopefully
these events will help the freshmen
become more comfortable with the
recruitment process.

Formal recruitment begins in
January, during the first week of
winter term classes. Hopefully,
Panhellenic’s new schedule will
make this process more enjoyable
for all.

‘Go to the movies! This week’s schedule:
~Washington Rgangke

I

#

I

and Lee

W&L Film Society:
Friday, 9/27- “Monster’s Ball”,
7:30
Saturday, 9/28- “Monster’s
Ball”, 7:30
Troubador Theatre

Politics Filmfest:
Friday, 9/27- “Burn!”, all day
Wﬂliarns School, room 221

Spanish House Movie:
Friday, 9/27- TBA ﬁlm, 8:00
Spanish House

Lexington

The following movies are currently
being shown at the:
State Theatre
12 West Nelson St.

These times are for Tuesday
through Thursday, 9/24-26.

“Ballistic: Ecks vs. Sever”-
7: 15
“My Big Fat Greek Wedding”-
7: 10
“Road to Perdition”- 7:00

The following movies are
currently being shown at the:
Valley View Grande

4730 Valley View Boulevard
Roanoke, VA 24012

Austin Powers— 1:25, 4, 7:15, 9:45
Ballistic: Ecks vs. Sever— 1:30,
4:20, 7220,10

The Banger Sisters-1, 3:45,
7:05, 9:30

Barbershop—l2:45, 3, 6:30, 9
Blue Crush- 1:25, 4:05, 7:25, 9:45
Cityby the Sea— 12:40, 6:45

The Four Feathers- 12:30, 3: 15,
7, 9:50

Feardotcom— 2:35, 5, 7:25, 9:50
The Good Girl-3:20, 9:15
TheMasterofDisguise-3:40, 5:30
My Big Fat Greek Wedding-
1:15, 4, 7:30, 10:10

One Hour Photo- 1 :40, 4:20,
7:10, 10

Signs-12:30, 3:15, 6:45, 9:15
Spy Kids 2- 12:45, 3:20, 5:45, 8:15
Stealing Harvard- 1:30, 4:10,
7:10, 9:20

Swirnfan- 12:50, 3, 7, 9:10
Trapped- 1:15, 4:10, 7:25, 9:50
XXX— 1, 3:40, 6:50, 9:30

Charlottesville

The following movies are
currently being shown at the:
Regal Downtown Mall 6
200 West Main
Charlottesville, VA 22902

The Four Feathers- 1:45, 4:20,
7, 9:40

The Good Girl- 2:30, 4:45, 7:45,
10

My Big Fat Greek Wedding-
2:45, 5, 7:30, 9:50

One Hour Photo- 2:15, 4:30,
7:15,9:30

Spy Kids 2: The Island of Lost
Dreams- 2130,4230, 7

SwirI1fan- 9:15

Trapped- 1:45, 4, 6:45, 9

  

 

_]r:E BRKX '\\i) .\l< Qt i r\‘ (, \i \'i'it {Ni-i1'.\I Plil

Professor to discuss talmudic argument

RICHARD MARKS
PR()l’ESS()R or RE1.i<;1<>x, \X’.\sH1xr;'i'o.\' ixn l.i~:i~: UXi\'l7.R.\‘l'i\'

“The Art of Talmudic Argument: Introduction to a
Classical Jewish Text” will be the title of a talk to be
given by Professor Elizabeth Shanks Alexander on
Monday, Oct. 7.

It will begin at 7:00 pm in Room 221 of the
Williams School of Commerce at Washington and Lee
University.

Alexander teaches in both the Department of
Religion and the Jewish Studies Program at the
University of Virginia. Some of the many courses she
teaches there include ‘Great Books in the Jewish
Tradition,’ ‘Law in Judaism,’ ‘Introduction to Talmud,’
‘Women in Classical Jewish Sources,’ and ‘Orality,
Tradition, and Religion’.

Alexander earned her B.A. at Haverford College,
as well as three degrees, an M.A., Master of
Philosophy, and a Ph.D., at Yale University. She
taught at Smith College until moving to the
University of Virginia in 2000.

In her research Alexander explores literary questions
of how the Talmud (a large collection of rabbinic traditions
dating generally from the Roman period) constructs its

  

Gerald M. Titus, Ill
President

Kempton W. Presley
Vice President

Helen B. Hughes
Secretary

A member of the Student
Body has withdrawn after
being found guilty of an
Honor Violation. The
student took another’s
work from the Internet
and submitted it as his/her
own for a Religion paper.

In response to student
requests, the Executive
Committee has decided to

meaning.

She is particularly interested in examining that which
is aesthetic in talmudic argumentation, in tracing the
rabbinic use of metaphors, and in investigating the effect
of oral transmission on the way traditions are received
and understood.

This last issue is the topic of her current book—length
project entitled Transmitting Text, Transforming
Tradition.

Two of her many articles are ‘Considering Evil: Art,
Argument, and Ambiguity in the Sukkah; (a page of the
Talmud)’, and ‘The Impact of Feminism on Rabbinic
Studies’.

Her most recent conference papers dealt with
‘Reading Women in Rabbinic Literature: The
Achievements and Challenges of Feminist
Criticism’ and ‘Investing Textuality, Inventing the
Mishnah.’

The general public is cordially invited to attend
Professor Alexander’s lecture, and there is no entrance
fee. '

This upcoming lecture will be sponsored jointly by
the Department of Religion here at Washington and Lee
University and through the Max and Sylvia Weinstein
Memorial Fund.

tut it'll-.\’\ i‘)"i(i x

COME CHEER FOR WASHINGTON AND LEE. Students enjoy Homecoming festivities
at Washington and Lee in 1978, complete with a Confederate Flag

renew its practice of posting
Student Body notices in the
campus newspaper.

Have a life? Write about it.
Call C.C. Guy at”x4060.

 

    
 

  

PAGE 6

 

Mexican food without frills or fuss will be

 & L 413

  

I

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2002

l

 

 

are great enough to deter those who are sick of the’!

Don Tequila offers no surprise heap food "

light on students’ wallets and tastebuds

BY ANDREW LATIMER AND MARK ALLEN
NEWS EDITOR AND STATE WRITER

In just about every respect, Lexington’s newest addi-
tion, Don Tequila, represents the quintessential col-
lege restaurant. Chances are, if you’re the average
hungry Washington and Lee student on a budget,
you’re looking for cheap food, an unpretentious at-
mosphere and a fine selection of no—frills Mexican
fare. But could the highly anticipated Don impress
a Texan?

Our visit turned out to be a story of compromises.
Sure, the chips and salsa were free and unlimited,
yet to the discriminating Texan palate they were
“cardboard.” Or
you got a selec-
tion of five enchi-
ladas, but only
three were good.

As for the
chicken served at
Don Tequila, its
quality, sadly, did
not surpass din-
ing hall-levels by
all that wide of a
margin. So much
for the alleged “au-
thentic” Mexican

STILL, NOBODY CAN
ARGUE AGAINST A
CHANGE OF PACE IN
METRO-LEX. . .NO
REASON IS GREAT ENOUGH
TO DETER THOSE WHO
ARE SICK OF EATING THE
SAME OLD MEAL FROM
THE SAME HANDFUL OF
LEXINGTON KITCHENS.

food.

Still, nobody can argue against a change of pace
in the food offerings here in Metro-Lex. Don Te-
quila may never compete head-to-head with the
well-established Palms, given its relatively early
closing time of 10:30 p.m. on weekends, lack of a bar
and less intimate atmosphere.

technical

BY SAM LAGRONE term

A BR / the Ring-tum Iw

AY CARUMBA! Lexingtorfs newest food establishment, Don Tequila, located on Nelson St., offers decent Mexican food at a

very affordable price.

Perhaps the biggest sin of all, there’s no televi-
sion to crowd around for a game of non-American
football.

Being a young establishment, Don Tequila suf-
fers from a lack of charm. For instance, take the som-

 

iS, “freaking concrete.

breros off the white stucco walls and you’ve got a
pizza parlor. The restaurant also attracts a number
of families, which may or may not matter to certain
students.

However, none of these aforementioned reasons

  

same old meal from the same old handful of Lexing-
ton limited kitchens. No one can argue with Don
Tequila’s list of thirty filling dinner combos for $6.25,
not even Taco Bell. Be sure to take advantage of the
$2.99 lunch special, a dealjust too good to pass up;

This is definitely the place to take five or six of
your good friends
in order to obtain
a cheap and filling
weekend meal be-
fore heading out
to a party. No need
to call ahead for
reservations, but
don’t be surprised if the waiting area is filled during
peak dinner hours on weekends or even on week-
days

Not too far down the road, we can see Don Te-I
quila being to Mexican food what the neighboring
Frank’s is to Italian food. You’ll get a much better
meal if you go to Roanoke, yet it will never be nearly
as nice to your wallet. For the time being, Dons
Tequila’s the only real game in town for Mexican
food after El Puerto’s #11 tragically shut its doors
last year.

A word of warning to those over 21: you’ll see a
decent selection of Corona, Dos Equis and Modelo V
Especial on the menu at $2.50 a bottle, as well as a
rudimentary wine list, but you can’t be served until
Don Tequila’s liquor license takes effect.

And don’t even think of charging that meal to
your credit card. For the time being, it’s checks and
cash only.

In any case, we see a future for Ramon Munoz
and his lively south-of-the-border taste. Our guess
is that a good deal of students will find themselves A‘
working Don Tequila into their lunch or dinner rou-
tine by the end of Fall Term.

Tell them that we sent you!

YOU’LL GET A MUCH
BETTER MEAL IF YOU Go 10
TO ROANOKE, YET IT
WILL NEVER BE NEARLY AS
NICE TO YOUR WALLET. ,

 

 

 

\'Ml DESK
Barracks: Partl

The most eye catching building
on Virginia Military Institute’s sterile
post is the Barracks. Not for its
aesthetic value, that’s for sure. It
looks like something EdgarAllan Poe
would have designed if he took his
flair for tortuous depression into
student housing.

The color is not the best either. If
the textured beige could talk it would
say in a raspy, nightmarish voice,
“There is no fun contained within
ever...we’re serious...and we’re
watching you.”

It’s the size that matters. The
building is massive. I think the

ginormous.”

Barracks, (spoken in the hallowed
tones reserved for Such other ancient
and adored relics as the Acropolis,
Monticello or The Rolling Stones,) is
ﬁve stories tall, and on its widest side,
at least 150 yards long.

According to the Princeton
review, Barracks is considered to be a
form of on-campus—housing. But
when I think “on—campus housing,”
images of cute loft beds and names
on the door written on “Hello Kitty”
stationary pop in my head.

Our version is more like the
interior of a federal correction facility.

The rooms are organized into
ruler perfect rows on an open stoop
that looks out into a courtyard of

 

HAPPY 215T BIRTHDAY
KATIE HowELL!

Love,
your‘ friends CCG,
AL, JB, MM, JF,
DC & BK

Are your Sunday
nights and Mon-
day mornings
lad<ing activity?
Looking for some-
thing new and
exciting? Write
for the Ring—tum
Hri!

(I)

Not surprisingly, the rooms are
pretty tight. My roommates and I are
lucky. There are three of us in a room
that’s 20 by 16 feet. That’s a deluxe
accommodation here at VMI. During
my first year I lived in a room about
the same size with three other guys.

Barracks is split into two—parts.
The names lack the class and
distinction of Washington and Lee’s.
Instead of Gilliam or Davis Dormitory,
there are the creatively named Old
Barracks and New Barracks.

Old Barracks was built in 1851 to
house the growing cadet population.
It was up for a grand total of 13 years
before a certain angry northern man
by the name of General Hunter came
through Lexington and razed the

     

 

as ' -
.. ~.»._  r .-or-v‘-r
 e*~A> *  ‘R R

building in 1864 (there’s still some ‘
cannon balls in the back of Barracks.)
New Barracks, which is located
on the left—hand side, was tacked in
1949 adding accommodation for about _ Q
double the number of cadets. There’s
a strange rivalry between Old and
New Barracks. A shared staircase
joins the two quads and on the wall
there are a series of bulletin boards. , Aw I
0116 3/631 a group Of Cadets f0l’IT19d EIIII:/,/’\uuv.E.iAGEs|otRNAI..roM/ISSLEOZ/lEAiLRES/RIIBDNJHM
the“ ewB cks L' ration nt,” ' - ' ' 99
and §,,,,,,d“,",,‘;‘,d,,,,ﬁ,b‘*W,,,d $5; H Russian Film Series shows “Prisoner
propaganda posters with catch . _ s
phrases like, “Take up your arms, Old FROM STAFF RE£_0RTS The ﬁlm was shot with a Russian
Barracks rs oorruugmn  cast and native Muslim volunteers on
That proved pretty popular’ but On Thursday,NS.eptember 19, the location in the Caucasus mountain
the most famous VMI quotation rs German and Russian Departments region in Dagestan Republic, only 300
from Confederate General Thomas hosted a screening of the 1996 ﬁlm km. from actual combat. Director 3.
«storrewauas Jackson. It is Written in “Prisonerof the Caucasus”fol1owed by SergeiBodrove was almost kidnapped
austere letters over the main entrance a discussion. The movie was a part of by his own Chechen bodyguards
to the Virginia Military Institute theW&LFall2002RussianFilmSeries. during ﬁlming. Wide-angle camera
barracks: «You may be whatever you The film updates Lev Tolstoy’s shots of rebel enclaves make for '
resolve to be» short story by the same title to panoramic beauty and highlight the
Itas an inspiration to an of us today’s Russo—Chechen wars. It was rebels’ geographic advantage.
Cadets as we walk into the errtrarree made following the “first” Chechen The ﬁlm won the 1996 Carmes
named after the General’ because for war of 1994 that ended inahurniliating International Critics Prize and
some strange reason We have Russian pulloutfrom Chechnya. This Audience Award, the Felix Best ,1
resolved to pay to live in J-arr ﬁlm is more conciliatory than Moscow Screenplay, the Sydney Film Festival’s
Contact Sam LaGrouer prefers, especially after the “second” Best Film, and Best Foreign Language
lagr0nesr@mm.l.vml.redu war began under Putin. Film Oscar nomination.
Q
66 ' ‘ ' 93
Our motto-is We do It with the lights on. r
Our performance space in Staunton is BlaCl(fI‘laI‘S PlayllOllSe,
the world’s only re-creation of Shakespeare's indoor theater. ’
A

' 66
The Boston Globe just. called our shows phenomenal -— tightly staged.
expertly performed, and bursting with energy.”

9  IS the Week to come see Shenandoah Shakespeare for yourself. 4 i

Besides our regular great offer of  0 Student Push lllflkebs

available at the box office one hour before each performance, at every show through
Sept. 28, we're celebrating Blacl<friars' first. anniversary by giving all patrons s

a complimentary ticket to use before Dec. 1.

Twelfth Night Sept. 26 at 1:30 Sept. 28 at 230

Gender Bending. Twinning. Slapstick. Irony. John Maness directs one of Sha.’tcespeare’s finest and most
popular plays and presents it entirehi in beautiful Elizabethan dress. a first for Shenandoah Shakespeare.
Graciously sponsored by Shipplett Cleaners.

Richard III sept. 25 & 27 at 7:30

Fbolery’s Thadd Mcouade ——- whose background in mime makes this a union of movement and text. —
directs our most physically inventive show of the season. Richard III was the Bards ﬁrs: box-oﬂice smash.

Julius Caesar sept. 26 8! 23 at 7:30
Shenandoah Shakespeare co-founders Ralph Alan Cohen and Jim Warren co-direct. this masterpiece of
betrayal. violence and suppressed eroticism —- a play more than togas and required reading. it

Before the show, visit our upper lobby. buy a beverage, and bring it in our
beautiful theater. Authentic Shakespeare is that fun. with the lights on.

www.shenandoahslIakespeare.com 540.885.5588-
1 South Market street Stauntnn, VA

beside the new parking. uarage in award-urinning downtown

 

. marrw Mr ...m+I:a':'»:z' -In

-uwr

 

  

jn<E\II'l*"IttNI\'I 1N
SPORISEDIIUR

ERIIII; IRR\RIIN]@\RIt‘.rI>L'
‘TUESDAY, SEI’IEl\lBER 24, 2002

 ~1’I.ilvIl)l=ll

 PORTS

 

PAGE 7

Snakebitten no more: Generals stun Guilford, 31-30

l‘lll':l)H(7l1)

GAME-WINNING CATCH. Sophomore
;(Taylor Callaham, shown here battling
johns Hopkins’ Rich Lamour, caught

junior Peter Dean’s TD pass off of a

fake spike play with 10 seconds
, remaining against Guilford.

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

GREENSBORO, N.C. — For once,
it wasn’t Washington and Lee left
standing in disbelief after a football
game ended in dramatic fashion.

On Saturday, the Generals had the
last laugh in a hard-fought gridiron
contest, as junior quarterback Peter
Dean faked a spike and then hit a wide-
open sophomore Taylor Callaham in
the end zone with 10 seconds left to
beat Guilford 31-30 at the Arrnﬁeld
Athletic Center.

The 17-yard touchdown pass
capped off a seven—play, 78-yard drive
in the ﬁnal 90 seconds for W&L (1-1),
which overcame a 30- 1 8 fourth quar-
ter deficit to win their Old Dominion
Athletic Conference opener against
the Quakers (1-2).

‘The amount of raw guts and ﬁght
it took to win this game, it’s just a total
tribute to the team,” said senior Chris
Sullivan, who had 39 carries for 181
yards and scored three times. “It’s
what we knew we could do. I’ In lost for
words, I’m just so happy right now.”

The touchdown pass for Dean,
one of two he threw in the fourth quar-
ter, salvaged what had been a subpar
game for the quarterback. The junior
threw three interceptions on the af-
ternoon, including one that was re-
turned 58 yards for a touchdown by
Guilford’s Sherod Long.

“Anytime a quarterback gets the
win, it’s a good game for the quarter-

1

NET PLAY. Freshman Taylor Gibson attempts to block the ball against Hollins’
Rebekah Cocke as senior Stacey Kimmel looks on in W&L’s 30-14, 30-19, 30-11

‘win on Wednesday.

back,” Dean said. “I had a crappy day
before that. But it makes it all worth-
while, that whole last drive. I feel the
same after this game as I would if I
had thrown for 400 yards and five
touchdowns.”

Saturday’s game was a tale of two
halves for the Generals, who trailed 10-4
at halftime and had just 93 yards of total
offense through the ﬁrst two quarters.

A different Generals team showed
up after halftime. W&L fell behind 17-
4 when Josh Smith hit Oren Robinson
on a 66-yard scoring strike with 9:04
left in the third quarter, but then the
Generals’ offense got in gear.

The two squads exchanged punts,
and W&L took the ball on its own 43-
yard line. After a wide receiver reverse
by junior Jon Brimer got the ball into
Quaker territory, the Generals called
seven straight running plays. Sullivan
took the ball on six of them, including
a 3-yard TD that cut it to 17-11.

“I think the big difference was our
conditioning kicked in,” W&L coach
Frank Miriello said. “They got tired,
and we just started smashing them up
front. They’ve got good athletes who
can run us down, but once they got
tired it began to happen for us.”

Guilford’s offense wasn’t showing
signs of fatigue yet, as the Quakers
stormed down the ﬁeld and scored on
Smith’s 22-yard pass to Chris
McKinney for a 24-11 lead near the
end of the quarter.

W&L again responded, as
Sullivan caught a 26-yard pass on a

BY DONNY BANKS
SPORTS WRITER

A year after setting a school record
for wins in a season, the Washington
and Lee volleyball team is off to the
best start in program history.

The Generals improved to 12- 1, 4-
0 in the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference, with four wins this week.

W&L captured a convincing three-
game victory over Hollins at home on
Wednesday night in their only home
match of the week.

Although head coach Bryan
Snyder had expressed the need for
some improvement after last
Wednesday’s win over Guilford, there
was almost no sign of weakness in
the team’s authoritative 30-14, 30- 19,
30-1 1 sweep.

“I think we played really well in all
facets of the game,” Snyder said.
“We’ve made a lot of improvements,
and it came through tonight. We had
a lot of digs and were able to return a
lot of scrappy balls.

“We've beaten Hollins in the past,
but this time we did it with a larger
margin of victory than usual,” he said.
“I think that it shows that our team
has come together well and is begin-
ning to execute.”

Leading the entire match, the Gen-
erals showed why they currently
boast the No. 1 position in the ODAC
this year and have a legitimate chance
for the Division IH national title.

The team dominated at the net, led
by sophomore outside hitter Michelle
Chastain and freshman middle blocker
Taylor Gibson, who each recorded
seven kills. Freshman libero Christine
Gladysz had eight digs, and sophomore
setter Jennifer Lux produced 21 assists.

QuARrEIu3AcK’s wonsr NIGHTMARE. Senior Andrewjames (23)

    

1 F1112

a fumble in the Generals’ 31-30 win over the Quakers at the

sacked Guilford quarterbackjosh Smith twice and recovered Armﬁeld Athletic Center on Saturday.

fourth-down play to trim the lead to
24-18. Junior Ted Mafﬁtt intercepted
Smith on the ensuing possession and
returned the ball to the Guilford 40.

This time the Quakers’ defense
stepped up. Long stepped in front of
a W&L receiver on a screen pass and
had an open lane to the end zone. The
home team missed the extra point but
led 30-18 with 11:18 to play.

The Generals continued to wear
down Guilford’s defense, calling
Sul1ivan’s number eight times on the
following 11-play drive. The senior
tailback scored from seven yards out
with 7:26 to play to make it a 30-25 game.

1 _Volleyball off to record-setting start

The win over Hollins marked
Snyder’s 100th career victory. His
record now stands at 103-41 lifetime
and 62-16 at W&L.

“To be honest, I’ve been very for-
tunate to have a great group of play-
ers,” Snyder said. “I’ve done my best,
but I would really give most of the
credit to them.”

W&L traveled to Harrisonburg
on Saturday, recording a 30-19, 30-
18, 25-30, 30-15 win over Eastern
Mennonite. Freshman middle
blocker Susan Gaillard tallied 14 kills
and three blocks for the Generals.
Chastain ﬁnished with 10 kills, eight
digs and six aces, and Lux contrib-
uted 32 assists, eight digs and six
aces.

The Generals played a pair of
matches in Ashland on Sunday, de-
feating host Randolph-Macon and
the visiting Virginia Wesleyan Blue
Marlins by 3-0 scores.

In W&L’s 30-15, 30-25, 30-13 win
over the Yellow Jackets, Chastain led
the way with 16 kills, nine digs and
three aces. Gaillard recorded nine kills,
while Gladysz had 18 digs and Lux ﬁn-
ished with 32 assists.

Chastain added 10 more kills in the
Generals’ 30-9, 30-26, 30-16 win over
Virginia Wesleyan. Lux tallied 37 as-
sists, and freshman Ashleigh Overly
contributed eight kills.

The Blue Marlins are in the devel-
opmental varsity phase, so the win
doesn’t count towards W&L’s con-
ference record.

W&L steps out of the ODAC to
travel to the Emory Classic in Atlanta
this weekend. They will meet the host,
which knocked them out of the 2001
NCAA Division III Tournament, on
Saturday afternoon.

, _Men’s tennis hosts W&L Fall Classic

<r)ti<II~sYorSIoIusLNioR.\IRIri\z
‘RETURN SHOT. juniors Graham Nix (above) and Austin Kim

‘placed third in a doubles ﬂight of the W&L Fall Classic.

BY BARRETT DAWS
spoms WRITER

The men’s tennis team kicked off its fall sea-
son this weekend by hosting the Washington
and Lee Fall Classic.

Head coach David Detwiler invited two top
Division I teams, Davidson and James Madi-
son, to play against his squad.

Detwiler said that he really enjoys this par-
ticular tournament because he is able to play
“18 players instead of eight,” thus giving him a
good chance to get an early look at the team.

This tournament also gave Detwiler an idea
of what to expect in the ITA/Rolex Southeast-
ern Region Championships at Salisbury Univer-
sity Oct. 5-7, in which only four to six of his
players will be able to attend.

The Generals played well this weekend, led
by junior Chris Surdo’s ﬁrst-place ﬁnish in the
No. 4 singles bracket. Surdo defeated
Davidson’s Thomas Jeter 6-4, 7-6 on Sunday to
win the ﬂight.

Freshman Jordan Eichenberger, sophomore
David Ellison and freshman Chris Kimmel fin-
ished third in the No. 2, 3 and 4 singles brackets,
respectively, while freshman Justin Hannon
placed fourth in the top ﬂight.

In the doubles matches, which consisted of
two ﬂights, juniors Austin Kim and Graham Nix
placed third in their bracket.

Coach Detwiler is excited about both this
season and the seasons to come.

“We have a young team this year. We lost
three starters, and only have one senior this
year,” he said. “However, we are lucky to have
four strong freshmen who will ﬁll in the shoes of
the players we lost: Jordan Eichenberger, David
Shay, Chris Kimmel and Justin Harmon.”

Coach Detwiler hopes that by the end of the
fall, his squad will be ranked between seventh
and 11th in the nation.

The Generals’ toughest opponent in the re-
gion will be Washington College, whom W&L
faces in dual competition on March 30, Detwiler
said.

Guilford seemingly had a chance to
put the game away after Smith and
McKinney connected for a 35-yard pass
to the W&L 27-yard line with 2:34 left.
But the Generals’ defense held, forcing
a turnover on downs with 1:30 left.

“The defense came through and
gave the offense opportunities when
it needed to,” senior linebacker Matt
Stavish said. “That’s all you can ask
for the defense to do.”

Dean ran W&L’s two-minute of-
fense nearly to perfection, complet-
ing 4-of-5 passes for 67 yards on the
final drive. But one of those comple-
tions —— namely the last to Callaham

— stands out from the rest.

“We were all casual getting up there,”
Dean said. “It was a great call from the
sideline, and Taylor made that catch.”

Stavish, who intercepted Smith on
the ﬁnal play of the game to seal the
victory, never questioned the W&L
offense’s ability to come back.

“I don’t really think there was a
doubt that we could come back,” he
said. “It was just a matter of execu-
tion, making the plays when we
needed to.”

The Generals travel to Centre Col-
lege in Kentucky for a non-conference
game on Saturday.

1 _ Only on WLUR 91.5 FM

Listen to the premiere of
THE SUNDAY EVENING Sponrs BEAT

Featuring Jake Trotter and Jeremy Franklin

Sunday, Sept. 29 at 6 p.m.

 

W&L ties Hornets, wins 2 at home

. «\M1St)N/HERL\‘G—TUMPlIl
IN PLAY. W&L senior midﬁelder jenny Thomas throws the ball in during the
Generals’ 3-0 win over Greensboro at the Liberty Hall Fields on Sunday.

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2002

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

Washington and Lee women’s soc-
cer saw a busy week with three games.
The Generals won twice at home after
securing an Old Dominion Athletic
Conference tie on the road.

Wednesday afternoon, W&L (3-1-
2, 2-1-1 ODAC) tied Lynchburg 1-1 in
a conference away match. _

Lynchburg junior Kat Stuart scored
off of an assist from senior Nicole
Wisniewski with 28: 19 remaining in the
first half, and W&L sophomore
midﬁelder Alison Irvin responded off
of a loose ball at 53:08 in the second
half. The teams clashed for the rest of
the half and two overtime periods, but
neither could break the tie.

W&L sophomore goalkeeper Emily
Barker played the entire game, post-
ing nine saves on a shot-happy
Lynchburg team. The Hornets
outshot the Generals 18-9, and had
eight corner kicks to W&L’s two.

W&L head coach Neil Curmingham
was pleased with his team’s perfor-
mance. “Lynchburg is the top-ranked
team in the ODAC this year, and
they’ve been the conference champi-
ons for the last two or three,” he said.
“We had a great team performance all
around.”

The Generals returned to action
Saturday afternoon against Hollins.
In a lopsided ODAC matchup, W&L
won out with a 12-0 ﬁnal score.

Junior forward Fontaine Marcoux
and senior midﬁelder Jenny Thomas each
earned six points, with two goals and
two assists apiece. Sophomores Molly
Plummer and Romney Wrllson scored
two goals apiece, and junior Susannah
Hewlett had a goal and two assists.

Also scoring for W&L were junior
Heather Coleman, sophomore Maggie
Hope and freshman Gina Von
Stemberg. Junior Meghan Hayde had
two assists.

Sophomore goalies Emily Barker
and Abigail Pfeffer split time in the net
to eam the shutout. The Generals took
an amazing 31 shots to ﬁve for Hollins.

Cunningham noted excellent play
from his team. “We played a good
game today. We passed well, and
made some good quality goals. We
moved the ball around more quickly
in the second half, and I’m happy with
that,” he said.

Sunday saw the Generals on the
Liberty Hall Fields yet again, playing
a non-conference match against
Greensboro. The game ended with a
3-0 Generals win.

Vlfrth 17:53 remaining in the sec-
ond half, sophomore midﬁelder Alison
Irvin collided with freshman defender
Heather Rogers as they fought for the
ball with a Greensboro forward, who
escaped unscathed.

Play stopped as a General managed
to kick the ball out of bounds, and the
two players were taken to the hospi-
tal for treatment. The extent of their
injuries was unknown at press time.

Hewlett scored unassisted just be-
fore halftime. After the break, Thomas’
ﬂip throw-in was headed in by a Greens-
boro defender, giving W&L a 2-0 lead.
W&L sophomore forward Molly
Plummer was credited for the goal.

Von Stemberg scored the ﬁnal goal
off of an assist from Coleman. Barker
again played all 90 minutes in goal for
the Generals, garnering six saves.

W&L travels to Randolph-Macon
Women’s College for a 4 p.m. match
today.

Field hockey splits
pair of ODAC contests‘

TAu1EjAMiso.\./ HE c.-run 11-’.

I GENERAIS ROLL. Washington and Lee freshman link S.B. Northen plays the ball

in Wednesday’s 16-0 win over Hollins at the W&L Turf Field.

Generals beat Hollins, drop road match to Lynchburg ,

BY DAVID CROWELL
ASSISTANT srorns EDITOR

The Washington and Lee ﬁeld
hockey team opened up Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference play with
mixed results this past week, beat-
ing up on Hollins 16-0 on Wednes-
day night before dropping a hard-
fought match, 2-0, to Lynchburg on
Saturday.

In the easy victory on Wednes-
day, the Generals (2-4, 1-1 ODAC)
were in Hollins’ zone all night, scor-
ing the garne-winning goal less than
three minutes into the match. W&L

cently, but it was still nice to win at
home in our first home game, in our
first conference game,” Orrison
said. I!

Unfortunately for W&L,
Lynchburg is a team that is experi-
encing a tremendous upswing. The
defending conference champion, the ‘
Hornets came in ranked seventh in '
the latest NCAA Division IH poll,
carrying a 6-0 record.

W&L stuck with Lynchburg for
most of the first half, taking six shots ,(
to the Hornets’ seven. One of
Lynchburg’s shots got past fresh-
man goalie Courtney Harrison,

Generals drop conference opener on road

Men’s soccer falls 1-0 to rival
Hampden-Sydney in ODAC game

FROM STAFF REPORTS

HAMPDEN-SYDNEY — The Washington
and Lee men’s soccer team opened up Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference play on Saturday
afternoon, dropping a 1-0 contest to Hampden-
Sydney.

Beau Burke scored the lone goal of the day
for the Tigers, taking a pass from Rob Johnson
and drilling it past senior goalie Tim Foley at the
47:36 mark of the second half.

Hampden-Sydney outshot the Generals 13-9
on the day and also held the edge in comer
kicks, taking 14 compared to W&L’s three.

Foley played the entire contest in net for the
Generals and made four saves. Austin Krison
and Elliot Byers split goaltending duties for the
Tigers, each recording a pair of saves.

W&L (1-2-1, 0-1-0 ODAC) hopes to even its
conference record when the Generals travel to
Guilford for a 4 p.m. match on Wednesday.

Golf places 16th at JMU invite

pete with a number of Division I schools this
weekend, ﬁred a 292-290-301—883 to place in a
tie with Vrllanova for 16th place out of 18 teams
at the JMU Invitational at the Lakeview Golf Club.
Senior Chip Campbell, anAll-ODAC performer
in the spring, led the Generals by carding a 73-72-
74—219, good enough to earn a tie for 35th place.
Sophomore Ged Johnson ﬁnished one stroke
behind Campbell to tie for
43rd place, posting a 73-70-
77—220 over the three

rounds.

Senior Chuck Green shot-

a 75-73-75—223 to grab a tie
for 61 st place. Freshman Tom
Borda shot a 77-75-75—227
to tie for 76th and round out
the scoring for the Generals.

Sophomore Carlos Spaht contributed a 71-
75-83-—-229 for W&L.

Penn State won the overall competition by 25
strokes over host James Madison, ﬁring a 280-
269-271-820. Among other Virginia schools,
Richmond tied for fourth with a 283-284-291--
858 and Liberty placed ninth with a 292-286-
289-867.

CAMPBELL

)UKlII\ (F  l,\'R>lL\l;\’llQV

The Generals are scheduled for the second

unleashed 73 shots on goal.

Sophomore Meredith Walker led
the way for the Generals, scoring
two goals and assisting on two oth-
ers. Sophomores Kristen Brown
and Kitt Murphy and junior Jessica
Lake each added two goals, while
freshman Jane Beall racked up three
assists.

Despite giving up 161 goals, Betsy
Coe made 35 saves in goal for
Hollins.

“It was a great game for every-
one to be a part of, and it’s great for
our conﬁdence,” Brown said after
the win. “We had a good chance to
work on some aspects of our offense
that we haven’t gotten to work on.”

The game got W&L back on track
after a difﬁcult time at the Salisbury
Tournament last weekend, where the
Generals lost three games by a com-
bined score of 15-2.

Despite winning in lopsided fash-
ion, coach Wendy Orrison still rec-
ognized the signiﬁcance of winning
the tearn’s home opener.

ODAC OPENER. \Washington and Lee senior defender Sean Hardin

and the Generals fell to Hampden-Sydney, 1-0, on Saturday.

HARRISONBURG — The Washington and
Lee golf team, enjoying the opportunity to com-

day of the Buck Leslie Invitational at the Lexing-
ton Golf and Country Club today.

“Hollins is a pretty weak pro-
gram that has been suffering re-

though, and the Hornets carried a l-
0 lead into halftime. ’

In the second half, Lynchburg
thoroughly dominated the Gener-
als statistically, outshooting W&L
10-0. Sara Ensley added an unas-
sisted insurance goal with 5:32 left
in the game.

Harrison made nine saves for
W&L on the day.

“With key games looming against I
conference foes Roanoke and East-
ern Mennonite this week, the pres-
sure is on early in the season.
Orrison is sure, however, her team
can answer.

“We just need to get more ex-
perience playing together,” the
second-year coach said. “It’s not
necessarily stick skills that we’re I
behind on, but our conditioning,
timing, learning where everyone
should be, running back on
plays.”

The Generals stay on the road
this week, as they travel to Roanoke
for a 4:30 p.m. matchup on Wednes-
day against the Maroons, who are

I

I

4-0 in ODAC play. A

SCOREBOARD

SATuRDAY’s FOOTBALLYARDLINE

Washington and Lee 31, Guilford 30
Washington and Lee 2 2 7 20-31
Guilford 0 10 14 6-30

First Quarter
W&L — Team safety, 10:37

Second Quarter

GC — Horton 37 FG, 10:50
GC — Ballard 2 run (Adams kick), 7:20
W&L — Team safety, 4:49

Third Quarter
GC — Robinson 66 pass from Smith (Horton kick), 9:04
W&L -— Sullivan 3 run (Whitfield kick), 3:07
GC — McKinney 22 pass from Smith (Horton kick), 0:16

Fourth Quarter
W&L — Sullivan 26 pass from Dean (Whitﬁeld kick), 13:21
GC — Long 58 interception return (Horton kick tailed), 11:18
W&L -— Sullivan 7 run (Whitfield kick), 7:26
W&L — Callaham 17 pass from Dean (conversion failed), 0:10

W&L

First downs 18 11
FIushes—yards 50-191 44-77
Passing yards 144 236
Return yards 208 124
Comp-Att-Int 10-23-3 13-22-2
Sacked-Yards lost 3-18 4-22
Punts 7-35.3 ' 4-39.8
Fumbles-lost 0-0 5-2
Penalties-yards 1-10 3-40
Time of Possession 33:24 26:36

INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS

FlUSHlNG—Washington and Lee: Sullivan 39-181, Diverio 3-
12, Brimer 1-12, Dean 6-(-13), Team 1-(-1). Guilford: Lockhart 12-
46, Smith 12-16, Journigan 6-15, Ballard 10-11, McKinney 1-2,
Caye 1-2, Team 2-(-15).

PASSlNG—Washington and Lee: Dean 10-23-3-144. Guilford:
Smith 13-22-2-236.

RECElVlNG—Washington and Lee: Callaham 4-48, Sullivan
2-33, Brimer 2-12, Neuman 1-31, Rankin 1-20. Guilford: McKinney
7-99, Robinson 3-86, Ballard 2-48, Caye 1-3.

|NTEFiCEPTlONS—-Washington and Lee: Maliitt 1-24, Stavish
1-0. Guilford: Long 1-58, Edward 1-0, Batts 1-0.

W&L SPORTS SCHEDULE: SEPT. 24-29

Tuesday, Sept. 24
Golf
Buck Leslie Invitational, Lexington
Golf & Country Club
Women’s Soccer
W&L at FIMWC, 4 p.m.

Wednesday, Sept. 25
Men’s Soccer

W&L at Guilford, 4 p.m.
Field Hockey

W&L at Roanoke, 4:30 p.m.

Friday, Sept. 27

Volleyball (at Emory Classic)

W&L vs. Texas Lutheran, 2 p.m.

W&L vs. East Texas Baptist,
4:30 p.m.

Cross Country

W&L at Great American Cross
Country Festival

Field Hockey
W&L at Eastern Mennonite, 7 p.m.

Saturday, Sept. 28

Cross Country

W&L at Roanoke Invitational
Women’s Soccer

W&L at N.C. Wesleyan, 12 p.m.
Football

W&L at Centre, 1:30 p.m.
Volleyball (at Emory Classic)
W&L vs. Southwestern, 2 p.m.
W&L at Emory, 4:30 pm.
Men’s Soccer

W&L at Roanoke, 2:30 p.m.

Sunday, Sept. 29
Field Hockey
Virginia Wesleyan at W&L, 1 p.m.

ODAC FOOTBALL GLANCE

ODAC

Team W
Washington and Lee
Bridgewater

Hampden-Sydney

Emory & Henry
Randolph-Macon

Catholic

Guilford

Sept. 21 Results

W&L 31, Guilford 30
Bridgewater 42, Maryville 0
Emory & Henry 25, Sewanee 24
Randolph-Macon 17, Carnegie

Mellon 14

-ACDCDOOOGT‘

Overall

L PF
45
113
88

—*©l\)l'\>|\30D-‘E
(DO)->U'I(Dl\)UI'U
<A>KO<O<D<D<7>—5>

Sept. 28 Schedule

Christopher Newport at Bridgewater
Catholic at Randolph-Macon

Emory & Henry at Davidson
Gulltord at Hampden-Sydney

W&L at Centre

Interested in getting involved with
Washington and Lee athletics?

Join T/96 Rz°r¢g—z‘m7¢ P/92'.

Opportunities are available to cover fall sports,
from football to soccer, ﬁeld hockey to volleyball.

Contact Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin at frame/z'7y’@u//medu or
Assistant Sports Editor David Crowell at crowe//a’@222/u.edu or
call X4060 for more information.

SELL SPRING BREAK TRIPS
ALL THE FUN & ALL THE PROTECTIONS
AMERICAN EXPRESS WORLDWIDE
GUARANTEED BEST BUY
1 FREE TRIP FOR EVERY 10 PAID
OR CA$H STARTING WITH FIRST BOOKING
YOU SELL - WE COLLECT PAYMENTS
WORLD CLASS VACATIONS
1-800-222-4432

Spring Break 2003 with STS
Americas #1 Student Tour
Operator
Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free
Inforrnation/Reservations
1-800-648-4849 or
www.ststravel.com

