THE RING-TUM
PHI
BEGINS THE
1051'}-1 VOLUME!

T

I W1?l15t¥{i§ll1<t.l§,l{:{)tf

Wzlslllr ‘YG-TON AND Ln: UNIVERSITY

JAMES  L‘i"Y1'~‘i"$4'.}~7 T..'ai‘!¥w'..=\.&-'2?‘ W
"./\.’.~’3.‘t"-1":-‘§§N‘~0”l"Cii’( i L‘ §1Nt9.'£~l§ 3/

 R 3 02002

T 12- R; K;   :2
INDEX

Ol"lI\‘='l(i)NS
SPORTS
Ans

Vt :11:-.111; Cl’.  

N

‘WM

:\'l(}Nl).'\’i’, Am. 29. 20112

 W&L welcomes
  ‘ accepd students

lvlm’ GUY / The Ring-rm Pbi
BY IMRAN NAEEMULIAH
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

On Wednesday, high school seniors accepted for fall
enrollment visited Washington and Lee one ﬁnal time before
the universal response date of May 1.

Accepted Students’ Day “is generally split 50/50, with
half of the approximately 160 visiting students attending in
the fall for sure, many of them turning in their deposits that
day, and the other half less certain,” said Kelly Kopcial, as-
sistant director of admissions. “It is a great way for them to
get a last glimpse of the campus before they have to decide.”

Alongside family members, students attended an infor-
nytion session, departmental open houses, sat in on classes,

‘ met current students, and possibly spent the night with a

freshman host.

Some students’ visits reinforced their decision to enroll
at W&L.

“I’ve already decided to come to W&L in the fall, but
since I’ve never visited campus, this was a great way for me
to make sure I was making the right decision,” said a male
prospective from Cincinnati, OH. '

Another student who had already spent several

' days during an earlier honor scholar competition, was

less sure.

“I’m really uncertain about where to go,” he said. “I’ve
also been accepted at Dartmouth.”

Dean of Students David Howison, Health Center Direc-
tor Jane Horton, and seniors Justin Arnold and Katie
Cedarholm presented a wide range of topics to parents and
students, includeding academics, the honor system, residence
life, dining services, the Greek system, and the new alcohol
policies.

Parents were especially concerned about W&L’s al-
coharl regulations, spending about twenty minutes on the
subject.

“The alcohol culture is present at many schools,”
said Howison. “Therefore, you should absolutely un-
derstand your values wherever you go, and know your
limits. We’re here to help students make the right
choices.”

Howison elaborated further on the strike system, explain-
ing, “We’re committed to engaging parents. The premise is
that everyone makes mistakes.”

Howison believed the session was “a great way
for students and parents to get a better feel for life at

A ‘ W&L.”

“The session was very informative,” said one parent.

7 “It’s hard to know what’s going to happen in college before
you actually get there. It’s especially hard to know the social
1 scene”

“This session has made me feel even better about my
decision,” his daughter agreed.
“I’1l see you next year!”

ail news briefs to
‘ v,lu.vedu

I 1 NOTES

Van Ness wins national grant

Kenneth Van N ess, professor of physics and engineering at Wash-
ington and Lee University, and colleagues from Rutgers and Princeton
were awarded a ﬁve-year $2.35 million seed grant from the New Jersey
Commission on Science and Technology. Federal agencies, founda-
tions and industrial sponsors have committed additional monies, bring-

ing the grant total to $7.7 million.

The project, “Advanced Functional and Structural Materials from
Irnmiscible Polymer Blends (IlVIPBs),” will create a collaborative, inter-
disciplinary industry/acadernic center for the development and com-

mercialization of IMPBS.

The multi—year grant will provide Van Ness with funding to con-
centrate on the processing and characterization of a number of new
11VIPB’s. Recently, Van N ess was awarded aThomas Alva Edison Patent
Award by the R&D Council of New Jersey in the category of emerging
technologies, which is directly related to this project.

The Edison Patent outlines the development of an IMPB with
unusually superior mechanical strength. The technology currently is
being used to produce commercial railroad ties which are in place at
various Class 1, mass transit and short-line locations. The stability of
the product, as compared to wood, makes the ties more suitable for
use in locations difficult to access, such as bridges and tunnels.
K Earlier attempts at creating l1\/IPBs, which are blends of two plas-

tics which normally do not mix well, yielded products with poor physi-
cal properties. The main advantage of the improved lMPBs described
in this proposal is that the two polymers are processed (blended)
together so that they become interlocked mechanically. Using blends,
54, explained Van Ness, rather than pure polymers, is more cost effective.

HAIL TO THE THIEF

HAIL TO THE <:H1r«:r'. Bush arrived in a helicopter (insert).

] rs BRLX 116/IT/} R12/gm/1P/2i

Traveller kicks off 4

BY CATHERINE C. GUY
W&LlFE EDITOR

After last fall’s tragic accident that
claimed the lives of two students, there
has been an increase in interest in
providing safe rides.

Last year, the campus worked on
improving Live Drive and Safe Ride, two
sober ride programs that ran three nights
a week from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. This Spring
Term, GASD (Generals Advocating Sober
Driving) has come up with a streamlined
sober driving system. Traveller runs
every night until 4 a.m. W&L students
volunteer to drive their cars, and adorn
them with white ﬂags. Also instrumental
were several faculty members, including
Dean Howison, Dr. Horton, Jane
Kaufman, President Boetsch, and the
Board of Trustees.

On Thursday, Apr. 25, GASD and SAE

sponsored a program in Lee Chapel entitled

“Deliberate Driving” to coincide with the '

kickoff of Traveller. The students brought in
speakers, who shared their drunk driving
experiences. Theﬁrstspeaker, Buddy Parsons,
is a Houston high school senior and brother
of W&L senior Whitney Parsons. Last year,
an intoxicated Parsons struck a tree, killing his
friend. He was sentenced to 120 days in jail,
10 months probation, and 400 hours of
community service. Parsons closed by stating
that“Lifeistooprecioustowaste. I’mjustan
eighteen year old who’s been through hell
andbac ” NextwereSeanandAmberBarry,
anAtlanta couple. Seandrovedrunkfrom the

Atlanta Steeplechase in 1998 and hit a tree,
killing the couple’s two best friends. Sean
was tried for intoxicated vehicular
manslaughterand was sentenced to ten years
probation. Sean observed, “Alcohol is your
choice, and so is driving, but drinking and
driving is not.”

After the speakers, senior Baxter
Lee, the president of SAE and a member
of GASD officially kicked off the
program. He stated that within the
three nights of operation, over 500
students had already used its services.
Lee thanked all participants, and said
that Traveller had been founded as an
extension of one of W&L’s founding
policies that, “Each student has to take
personal responsibility for his or her
actions. In this situation, it means
finding a safe way to get home.” As
the students left, they received
Breathalyzer strips and replicas of the
Barrys’ car key.

Traveller has been running for a
week, and many are thrilled with its
success. States sophomore Richele
Cole, “I love Traveller.” However, not
all are enthusiastic. Another sophomore
girl states that she’s had difficulty
obtaining a ride. “I’ve called four times
now and have not been picked up. They
don’t show up, or don’t give you a
timefrarne for when they can come. I
don’t think it’s as efficient as Live Drive
was.” Hopefully, Traveller will be able
to work some of these kinks out, for as
Lee said, “We hope to save some lives.”

Music industry seeks Internet alternates

BY IMRAN NAEEMULLAH
.\ss1sr.\x’r .\E\V'.\i EDITOR

After all the fuss over the Napster copyright vio-
lation trials, the recording industry has come up with
an alternative way of ﬁghting copyright violations. The
ﬁve biggest recording companies (Sony, Universal, EMI,
BMG and Warner) have ﬁnally united their efforts to’
lure music fans away from the temptation of breaking
copyright — the two new music sites PressPlay and
MusicNet offer thousands of hot music picks at low
prices.

When discussing copyright enforcement actions,
most people talk about the legendary trial cases of
the Recording Industry Association of America and
Metallica v. Napster Inc. or the restrictions that dif-
ferent governmental agencies and educational insti-
tutions impose on their members on using software
tools that might cause copyri ght violation. During all
the years while Napster was being dragged from one
court hearing to another, many of the IT—interested
people were very pessimistic about the success of
this method. The immediate future showed that they
were right — the web site “After Napster — The Beat
Goes On...” (www.aftemapster.c0m) displays a list of
32 Napster-like peer-to—peer products. The famous in
W&L Morpeus/Kazaa software is just one of those
32. Since it took around 2 years to sue Napster and
Napster violates the copyright law texts quite bla-
tantly, just imagine how much time it would take to
sue all the 32 others.

Also, many people have disputed the benefits
of closing down peer-to—peer software tools. The
main purpose of developing these tools was enable
people to share all kinds of useful data — scientific
research results, geographical maps, different kinds
of statistics... Illegal music and video files, even
though they are the most commonly distributed
ones, are just a part of the picture. In fact’, even the
US military ordered some months ago to have a peer-
to—peer based software tool developed for improv-
ing communications between military units in spe-
cial operations.

Because of these two reasons there was a call for
searching for alternative solutions of the copyright viola-
tion problem. Finally there is some result — the ﬁve big
recording companies united themselves and produced two
websites, PressPlay and MusicNet, which enables their
users to listen to and download copyrighted songs le-
gally and even burn their own CD’s in return of a monthly
subscription fee.

PressPlay (www.pressplay.com) contains a large
archive of music from three big recording companies
(Sony, Universal and EMI) and also a number of inde-
pendent labels. The site offers a 14-day free trial and
after that a choice of 4 subscription plans. The Basic
Plan allows for 300 streams (listening to a song with-
out actually downloading it) and 30 downloads (copy-
ing the song file to your hard drive) at the price of
$9.95/month. The Silver Plan offers 500 streams, 50
downloads, and 10 CD burns for $9.95 during the first
3 months and $14.95 after that. The Platinum Plan

offers 1000 streams, 100 downloads and 20 burns for
$24.95/month and the Gold Plan allows for 750 streams,
75 downloads and 15 burns for $19.95/month. This
means that the price for a stream can fall down to 2.5
cents without including all downloads and streams
you get!

MusicNet (www.musicnet.com) features music from
the selections fromBMG, EMI, Warner and Zomba,
showcasing more than 10,000 artists from all musical
genres. Their Real One MusicPass service allows for
100 streams and 100 downloads for $9.95/month. For
$19.95 you get their Real One MusicPass Gold service
which allows for all of the stated above and also for
recording and mixing your own MP3’s and unlimited
CD burning.

So, how successful are these solutions of the copy-
right violation problem? The two projects have both
advantages and disadvantages. The advantages are the
very low prices they offer for guaranteed high-quality
music (sharing programs do not guarantee that) and the
fact that they allow music fans enjoy their favorite bands
completely legally. Their major disadvantage so far is
that they are not united. For example paying the sub-
scription fee for PressPlay would enable you to listen to
U2, Santana and Shaggy (if they happen to be your fa-
vorite artists), but if you want to listen to Red Hot Chilli
Peppers, 2Pac and Britney Spears, you will have to pay
the subscription fee for MusicNet, too. So, even though
this is a step towards solving the copyright violation
problem, there are more steps for the recording industry
to take.

. Phi Gamma Delta 3.290

. Sigma Chi 3.283

. Sigma Nu 3.265

. Sigma Alpha Epsilon 3.237
. Lambda Chi Alpha 3.235
. Pi Kappa Phi 3.176

. Phi Kappa Psi 3.159

. Kappa Sigma 3.114

. Phi Delta Theta 3.062

10. Phi Kappa Sigma 3.048
11. Sigma Phi Epsilon 3.013
12. Chi Psi 2.981

13. Beta Theta Pi 2.976

14. Pi Kappa Alpha 2934
15. Kappa Alpha 2.892

\O0O\lO\UI-b~b->l\-)>-*

1. Pi Beta Phi 3.462

2. Chi Omega 3.358

3. Kappa Alpha Theta 3.328

4. Kappa Kappa Gamma 3.215
5. Kappa Delta 3.200

Fraernity Rankings

All Sorority 3.304

All Women 3.277
Non-Sorority Women 3.217
All Students 3.177

All Fraternity 3.1 10

All Men 3.096
Non-Fratemity Men 3.048

Sorority Rankings

. Pi Beta Phi 3.355
. Kappa Alpha Theta 3.271
. Chi Omega 3.182

. Lambda Chi Alpha 3.094
. Kappa Delta 3.026

. Phi Kappa Psi 2.984

. Phi Gamma Delta 2.976

. Kappa Sigma 2.965

. Pi Kappa Phi 2.963

. Pi Kappa Alpha 2.889

. Kappa Alpha 2.884

. Beta Theta Pi 2.874

. Phi Delta Theta 2.822

. Sigma Chi 2.786

. Sigma Nu 2.778

. Chi Psi 2.706

. Sigma Phi Epsilon 2.684
. Phi Kappa Sigma 2.675

[\)r—->->—ai-—->->—a>—ar—-w»>—\OOO\lO\U1-kL;.)t\)>—A
©\DOO\lO\U1-D-U-)I\)>—*(D

Freshmen GPA

. Kappa Kappa Gamma 3.180
. Sigma Alpha Epsilon 3.096

6:00 p.m.—Java-Palooza. Java-
Palooza and Habitat for Humanity
present Poston" Brown opening for
Agents of Good Roots. This is the
Habitat for Humanity Spring Kickoff.
BDG Quad. Cookout is 6-7 and con-
cert is 6—10:30. (rain location: Doremus
Gym)

Wednesday, May 1

12:00 p.m.—Environrnental Stud-
ies Luncheon 2001-2002. “Reading
the Roots: American Nature Writing
before Walden,” Michael Branch, as-
sociate professor of Literature and
Environment at the University of Ne-
vada, Reno. Room 114, University
Center. RSVP to Lynda Bassett de
Maria, ext. 8932.

8 p.m.—Alcoholics Anonymous
Meeting. Fairfax Lounge. All W&L
students, faculty/staff and the Lex-
ington community are welcome. Cof-
fee is provided.

Thursday, May2

8:30 p.m.—Reunions 2002: Open-
ing Assembly. Keynote Speaker:
Lamar J .R. Cecil, professor of history
emeritus. Lee Chapel.

9:30 p.m.—Reunion 2002: Welcom-
ing Reception. Alumni House.

Friday, May3

ll a.m.—60 Minutes with the
President.

 

I,
’.

PAGE 2

r .

....,.......
rr«rr.\—r.r-er

.r........«-......
rut rrtfrrfrlxrxt

Sf.i“FE‘PEDITonAL

Introducing the sprin g lineup

Twenty-ﬁve of the Phi’s best issues have
come and gone, and in accordance with tra-
dition the new staff must be introduced.

Fresh from South Central Chevy Chase,
our new opinions editor brings his own brand
of street smarts to his section. Rejecting his
predecessor’s donnish trappings of academia,
Andrew Alvah Latimer isn’t fronting, he’s phat
and real.

Brett Timothy Kirwan, -the former
opinions editor, is working for an Ohio
senator. Democrat, naturally. Ohio is the
land that is high in the middle and round
on the sides, and itnow has W&L’s most
vocal commentator on the barricades of
the culture wars.

On the sports page, David Michael
Crowell replaces Jeremy Scott Franklin.
Franklin is on special assignment to Germany,
hoping to introduce American sports (and pho-
tographer Meg Ferrara) to a country that
sorely needs them. No more cricket or bocce
for the citizens of the Federal Republic!

Crowell is currently pursing his undergradu-
ate degree at Washington and Lee University.

Fair Photo Lass Mary Guy remains on staff.

The Life page mourns the passing of Mat-
thew Coursen, who undertakes the rigors of se-
nior year. Catherine Clare Guy remains, a stal-
wart ﬁgure not unlike the Statue of Liberty, safely
directing scores of immigrants to freedom

Irrrran Naeemullah remains in news, and
newsworthy. He enjoys long walks on the
beach, British cinema, bloody steak dinners,
and foreign travel.

Like Sirius Vega Centauri, a migratory
star that abandoned its planetary system for
the void, the Phi’s brightest celestial body
Katie Jane Howell, associate editor, leaves
for California. Although temporarily absent,
editors everywhere still fear the long reach
of the Evil Queen’s pica scepter.

Editor-in—Chief Matthew Buchan
McDerrnott will remain on staff, dispensing
grandfatherly advice and Christian cheer.

Volume CV’s new editorial board pledges
to continue the ﬁne work begun in the previ-
ous edition, ensuring continuing strides in story
and layout quality.

UOTE OF THE WEEK:

RINK—TUM-PHI,
STICKERI-BUMl WE
ARE THE STUFF FROM
LEXINGTONl
— 1898 CALYX

THE RING-TI:uI PHI

PINIONS

ANDREWIAIIIEI
OPINIONSEDIIOR
E-MAIL LAIIMEIIA@xxIL'.EI)U

Needle exchange a good idea

American officials need to rethink the way they combat the spread of AIDS

Now there has been nothing
in the news of late to really bring
the subject of my article this week
to light, but it is something I en-
countered in the reading for one
of my courses. So, I thought I’d
pollute your minds with my liberal
slant on the matter.

In the United States it is
proven again and again that many
beneficial harm reduction policies
concerning drug use do nothing but
meet an overwhelming opposition.
Of these proposals, arguably the
most controversial is the idea of
needle-exchange programs for us-
ers of illicit intravenous drugs.

That this means is local clinics
and hospitals provide an opportu-
nity for intravenous drug users to
exchange their dirty, used needles
for new ones.

There are several reasons that
these types of policies continually
meet resistance among politicians
and their constituents alike. Prima-
rily, it is believed by many that these
types of policies will “send the
wrong message.” To illustrate this,
I will use an example of another harm
reducing policy.

Many of America’s illegal im-
migrants live in situations in which
their children and families suffer
from malnourishment because
these families live well below the
poverty line. Some have advo-
cated policies that would give
these families benefits to help
them out.

The opposition to such pro-
posals believes these types of poli-
cies would do

here is one of addiction, not a
shortage of clean needles.

But, as is shown by such pro-
grams in other countries, if we can
make these needles available then
addicts will take the effort to use
clean needles.

Moreover, the biggest reason
for concern is obvious. We know
that needle sharing has been
shown to be just as likely to
spread HIV as promiscuous sexual
activity between homosexuals or
heterosexuals. I believe our gov-
ernment has a responsibility to
keep this disease from spreading
amongst all of our country’s com-

munities, includ-

nothing but en-
courage a
steadier flow of

LEFT OF CENTER ing illicit drug
_ users.
NICHOLAS RAMSEY ‘O3 1“ reality. it

illegal immi-
grants to come
to the United States. The same is
believed to be true for needle—ex-
change programs. Opponents to
the idea believe that such policies
would send the wrong message to
the public.

I ask, is it likely that someone
will say, “Well, I can get free
needles from the local clinic. I
should develop a smack habit.”

Moreover, addicts are not go-
ing to increase use of their addic-
tive drugs because the needles are
free. We know that they are al-
ready sharing needles with other
drug users because they cannot
get sterile needles. The problem

Letter to the Editor

seems callous for
our government
to sit idly by as more and more drug
users become infected. Nearly sixty
percent of tested drug users in New
York were found to be HIV—positive
and these numbers are found to be
only slightly less in Eastern Europe
and Asia.

Studies in 1998 showed that ap-
proximately one-third of new AIDS
cases here in the US were linked di-
rectly or indirectly to drug use.

Currently, countries like En-
gland, Canada, Australia, Sweden
and the Netherlands have been
successfully operating needle—ex-
change programs. Some started as
early as the 1980s. These programs

coumsr or now/.cor71erI17z4grlorr.og
A sHorr IN THE ARM: Successful needle exchange programs in other countries could
serve as a model for a similar venture in America.

exist only in the dozens here in the
US, often operating underground.
They are forced to do so because
no tolerance laws in many states
forbid such programs.

Meanwhile, the National Insti-
tutes of Health, the Centers for Dis-
ease Control and Prevention and
the National Academy of Sciences
have all endorsed these exchange
programs. Sadly, government
policy cannot seem to be as pro-
gressive as scientific research
needs it to be.

Lastly, I do not believe that
this type of action would be an-
other economic drain on society.
Sterile needles are much less costly
than the drain of AIDS research and
care for infected patients could ever
be. And lastly, whatever opinion
you may have of these addicts, no
one deserves to be put at such a
blatant risk of contracting this hor-
rible disease.

While those who are clean
cannot comprehend the physical
and mental addiction that drug
users have, it literally makes them
unable to behave in a way where
their own well being takes prece-
dent. Drugs are always their first
priority.

Therefore, if our government
can take actions to keep drug us-
ers from getting infected, thus
slowing the spread of AIDS, and
decrease the economic drain these
new cases create on our economy,
then why shouldn’t they?

Edi tor- in-chief Matthew B. McDermott
Associate Editor Katie J. Howell
Asst. News Editor ImranNaeemullah
Opinions Editor AndrewA. Latimer
W&Life Editor Catherine C. Guy
Sports Editor David M. Crowell
Photo Editor MaryE.Guy
Photographer Meg F errara
Business Manager Paul A. Seifert
Circulation Manager Brian Castleberry
Asst. Business Manager Emily Barker
Advertising Manager William Litton
Internet Editor Peter L. Djalaliev

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the _

undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All subrrrissions must be e-mailed to
phi @wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
verljsing does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
» Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http.’//phi.wlu.edu

Annual Subscription Rate: $30

W&L students who favor maintaining
status quo should start packing

Dear Editor,

I am writing out of concern for the young men
who have recently voiced their discomfort with dis-
cussions about the course of cultural change at W&L

I think they’ve got it backwards and may need to
reconsider whether they made a mistake when decid-
ing that W&L was the right choice for them.

While it seems that some students may have de-
cided on W&L, looking for a homogeneous outlook
among their peers, I am certain that Admissions was
not presenting W&L in that light.

Our Admissions experience portrayed a different
view of W&L leadership moving in another direction,
encompassing an appreciation for the richness of intel-
lectual life that comes as a result of intentional efforts
to recruit a freshman class offering a broad representa-
tion of human experience as an overall goal in selecting
from among the most promising applicants each year.

As a W&L parent, I know that my daughter views
both the heritage and present W&L with sincere passion
and positive appreciation. She enjoys intellectual debate
and would be very unhappy at the lack of opportunity for
growth if W&L students all shared common viewpoints.

For those who are discounting the value of growth
and change at W&L that has taken place after the Presi-
dency of Robert E. Lee, it may be a beneﬁt to read some of
his own writing about education. As a leader, he embraced
intellectual growth and accomplishment.

If the intellectual climate at W&L were frozen in time,
as suggested recently, W&L would not have maintained
the stature that Robert E. Lee envisioned for a great insti-
tution of higher learning.

The idea that those who are not in line with the
“status quo” thinking at W&L ought to attend else-
where seems to suggest that the author(s) of that opin-
ion have written their own remedy. Since they are not
in sync with goals at W&L, their logic would lead them
to get their transfers in order.

For the time being, since young women were not
admitted at W&L until recently, these young men
ought to stick to their convictions and abstain from

’any social activities with any of the female students
at W&L.

I am certain that my daughter, among others, will

not mind that at all.

Sincerely,

A W&L Parent

Judy L. Konkel

Parent of Robyn J. Konkel ‘05

MONDAY, APRIL 29, 2002

Oh,the burns, the
hippies, the anthrax

A report from the front lines of the
battleﬁelds on Capitol Hill

The latest article from Brett Kirwan marks
the ﬁrst installment in a series of “Dispatches
From The District”'as he embarks upon Wash-
ington Term. This week: protesters, the loom-
ing fears of anthrax, supporting the home-
less and other perils. ‘«

The Washington Term class has arrived in
Washington; one week down and if any anthrax is
yet to come through the Capitol, we’ll be the first
to know.

Constituent mail takes up much of the time of
Senate side staffers, although the Honorable Senator
from Ohio, has, thankfully, decided that interns
shouldn’t be on mail duty, so I have a reprieve.

However, the paid staff in my office has been

sorting through
“°“’1y five ”‘°“’ RIGHT or THE AISLE
sand copies of the
same letter—— vot—  KJRWAN ‘O4

ers really do mail in

the form letters sent to them from lobbying groups. 1 A

Other mail highlights include letters explaining
why and how to get rid of daylight savings time, all
manner of threats to Senators, the Senate and the
United States and the always exciting irradiated let-
ter that crumples when touched. Not only are the
security measures rendering mail anthrax-free, but
oftentimes illegible as well.

Washington is never a dull city, though, no may
ter how many hours one spends in the mail room. In
fact, our very first commute was punctuated by idi-
otic, yet colorful, protests. Several hundred rich white
suburbanites and burned-out hippies were blocking
traffic and trampling the lawn in front of the Capitol.

The average protestor really has no gripes ‘
with the government or America. Most probably
go to Georgetown and have daddy’s credit card in
pocket. As such, they dress in rags, but film their
pointless rallies with $700 video cameras.

Everything is on tape. A dirty look from the po-
lice is filmed as evidence of the terrible treatment
dealt to the well-heeled, worthless wimps who chant
in solidarity with the oppressed in the third world.

Who knows what these unwashed granola-eaters
are angry about? Their one-verse chants included com-
plaints about ?trie'soA, military aid to Columbia, the
plight of the Palestinians and a litany of the usual lib-
eral boilerplate. They cheered loudly and applauded

when one of their number was arrested and carefully *

escorted to a waiting Metro bus. ~ _

There were, of course, more chants that praised
the great courage of the arrestee, as if being carried
away for stepping into the street when politely asked
not to by a police officer who could, and had every
right to, break you in two demonstrated any cour-
age or deep political insight rather than incredible
immaturity and a juvenile rebelliousness.

All in all, the protestors are easily ignored and
accomplish little more than giving headaches, early
mornings and overtime to the hard—working men
and women of the D.C. police department.

Another aspect of the commute that Lexington
doesn’t offer is the homeless people sprawled
along the sidewalk and around the Metro stations.
One in particular, Steve, is on the street begging
for food with a sign that assures any donations‘.
won’t be used for booze or drugs, but is always. ‘
eating. Every time we have seen this bum he has
either been sleeping or eating, yet he wants my
money! Afriend of his, Al, provides passers-by with
oldies hits playing from his boombox.

Creativity abounds among the homeless com-
munity. One lady who is stationed outside the
Metro in the afternoon used to carry a sign claim-a
ing she has three children to feed. The last few 1
days she has brought a child to sit next to her and l T
look extra pathetic.

_ Others seek to provide a service to the commu-
nity in exchange for handouts. The sidewalk in front
of Union Station is filled with bright trumpet music >4
from a man who knows everything from “Charge!”
to “We’re off to See the Wizard.” Thursday after-
noon he had to compete with a violin duet for the
travelers’ money.

Hilarity is easily found inside the Senate as
well. Who knew that Idaho had a Senator named
Mike Crapo? Who knew that Hillary’s trailer is a
double-wide?

TAl.KBACI<: \l/hatis your favoritecxcuse forslrippirrg Spring Term classes?  

 

 

 

   

 

 

)
it
“A bottle of Scotch and a “My teachers require me to go, so “Sleep,” “Moi? I never Skip Classes.” “Sleeping.” A
good cigar-” Igo-” -Robert Floyd ‘04 -Mehul Srivastava ‘()4 -Maria Golubiewska ‘04

-Mike A gnello ‘02

-Susan Slopek ‘04

‘It. ,.

 

    

[ma 3

.§rugmVumt§£ - .sm-msmtstv mm

 
 

 

Copper Cotl. e

Gracious comfort awaits you at
Copper Cottage. Enjoy breath taking
mountain views and beautiful sunsets.
In a peaceful relaxed atmosphere.
You can have the serenity and privacy
that comes with country living, and
still have the convience of being less
than 4 miles from downtown
Lexington. Sleeping 4, Copper
Cottage offers such amenities as a
fully equipped kitchen, direct tv,
central air and a deck with gas grill.
So whether your trip to Lexington is
business or pleasure let Copper
Cottage be your home away from
home. Call 540 463 9222 for further
information and reservations.

owes

MONDAX’, APRIL 1, 2002

Lexington Art Gallery
13 W. Nelson Street

Lexington, Va 24450
(across from the movie theater)

Contemporary Photography

Silverl Platinum I Palladium Prints
W&L and local landscapes

Exclusive Portfolio “Rockbridge 2002”
& Robert E. Lee 1870 portrait printed from Miley Glass Plate

Sat 10 to 6 Sun 11 to 3 & Appts.

Phone 540-464-8080
EMail: lexart@ntelos.net
www.lexingtonartgal|ery.com

  

r_Vjl_0NDt\1,__r\l’RlL 29. 2002

AMERICAN RED CROSS CLASS
COMMUNITY FIRSTAID & SAFETY
INFANT/CHILD ADULT CPR
STANDARD F IRS TAID
DOREMUS GYMNASIUM 500-LEVEL CLASSROOM
MAY 2, 9, AND 16 6 TO 10 PM EACH EVENING

FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT
RED CROSSOFFICE, WAYNESBORO, VA., 540/943-4511

    
    

,Lcx‘ington,. Virginia , 
Where entet'tain[m_entc0mes naturally.

  

Keiip tanley 8:
The Clinch Mt. Boys
Sunday,

can at

Friday, May 17, 7:30 pm.

    

Janis la
Sunday, June 2, 7:30 pm.

,_ . _ _ .
Doc Watson
Sunday, May 26, 7:30 p.m.

a

Tix & Information

WWW theateratlirnel<jln.com
or call 540-463-3074

 

 

PAGE 4

FOR RENT

3-bedroom furnished apartment, off-
street parking, 5 minutes on foot from
Washington Hall. $600/month; utilities
not included. One—year lease. Please
call 463-7044 after 5:00 pm.

Join the 105th crew!
Phi meetings

Monday, 5:05 pm.

write — layout - copy edit — etc

 
 
 

 
 

133

Great Student Rental for rent Undergrads or Law
Students. Available 2002-2003. Two stories, two
Lpartmetns, two apartments, up to six people. Ping Pong
Room $ TV Room. Large yard and very private. Call
463-7168 or evenings 348-6908.

TBAIIEIIEII

463-8900

  1 nights ner week
10nm--zam

Extended hours:

Wed. Fri, Sat [9 m--
llaml

Take Iiesnonsillilitvl

Location: BDG Quad / Rain Locatin: Dorms  
Mondays-Spring Term / Times: 7:30-10:30 PM

I‘

 

 

*7

Tea: Rl:‘\'Et".}~»1‘l,l?»l;l)l—lt

A
EMONDAY, APRIL 29, 2002

PORTS

  

DAVID CROWEIL
SPORTS EDIIOR

EMtII; (ROWE1lD@WlLl.EDU

PAGE 5

«Generals earn trip back to NCAA Tournament

%W&L survives

   

vi

MARY (iUY/ The Ring-ti/M Phi

;RUNNING THE OFFENSE: Freshman Gavin Molinelli awaits a pass during the
Generals’ 14-12 semiﬁnal win over Lynchburg on Tuesday afternoon. Molinelli
itallied three goals and two assists in two ODAC tournament victories.

-1.

BY DAVID CROWELL
SPORTS EDITOR

For fans of the Washington and

at Lee men’s lacrosse program, April

&L track competes at ODAC

(C

I14 was a bleak day. On that Sun-
;day afternoon, the Generals
‘dropped an 8-5 contest to

destroyed W&L’s playoff hopes a
season ago.

Two years, two straight defeats.

When the squad needed a vic-
tory the most, however, they found
a way to win, defeating the top-
seeded Tigers 8-3 to claim the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference

/ate scare in beating Lynchburg 14- 12 in semifina

berth to the NCAA Division III Tour-
nament.

“Coming in, this was a team we
knew we could beat,” freshman Gavin
Molinelli, who tallied an assist in the
championship game, said. “We had
a mental lapse the first time we played
against them, but if we just played
our game, we knew we would beat
them.”

In the April 14 contest, the Gener-
als got out to a quick 3-1 first quarter
lead behind two goals by junior Tom
Melanson. The Tigers, however,
dominated the second quarter, scor-
ing five unanswered goals to take a
6-3 halftime lead. At this point, coach
Mike Cerino believes Hampden-
Sydney took his squad out of the
game.

“I think we played a little tight since
we were anxious about a big game,”
the first-year coach said. “You have
to give them credit. They knocked us
out of our offensive flow a little bit.

“They put us into a lullwith their
offense and we started to do the same
thing on the other end. That’s not our
style of play.”

The Generals got the opportu-
nity to revisit their style of play by
trouncing Randolph-Macon and
Virginia Wesleyan by scores of 11-2
and 18-1 respectively. Molinelli and
sophomore Matt Fink each tallied

Randolph—Macon while sophomore
Dustin Martin scored four goals to
lead the Generals over the Blue
Marlins.

Cerino believed these games were
very good for conﬁdence heading into
the ODAC Tournament. He believed
it was “important for us to concen-
trate on our play down the stretch and
click as a team a little bit.”

The defense, offense and sopho-
more goalkeeper Ansel Sanders all
seemed to click early in Tuesday’s 14-
12 semiﬁnal Victory over third-seeded
Lynchburg.

After giving up an extra-man goal
to Lynchburg, the Generals erupted
for eight unanswered scores, punc-
tuated by sophomore defenseman
Lawson Grumbine picking up a
ground ball, running the distance of
the ﬁeld and delivering a nifty pass to
Molinelli for a score at the 7:55 mark
of the second quarter.

The Generals went into halftime up
9-2, a lead they held the rest of the
way despite a frantic comeback at-
tempt by the Hornets.

“I think everybody played really
well,” Molinelli said. “There were some
problems late, but we stuck together and
that’s what championship teams do.”

Lynchburg took advantage of
nine W&L penalties and scored
three extra-man goals in the second

“It was a tough situation, going to
the penalty box while winning,” Cerino
said. “We plan to take care of our fouls
by playing a little smarter. We were play-
ing hard, but I think we lost a little bit
of our focus in the second half.”

Cerino added that a key to the game
plan was limiting Lynchburg’s second
chances and gaining key ground balls.
The Generals control of the ball
started with Melanson. who won 15
ground balls.

“Melanson was unbelievable,
he’s one of the best in the country,”
Cerino said. “If he’s at the top of his
game, he makes us a special lacrosse
team.”

Despite some problems late, Cerino
also praised the play of Sanders, say-
ing that “Ansel is one of the reasons
we’re here and he’ll take us as far as
we go. He held one of the highest-
scoring teams in the country to two
goals in the first half.”

Before the tournament began,
Cerino said that he wanted to see his
younger guys, including Martin, Fink,
and classmates Mike McNamara and
Mark McLewee to be aggressive and
take their shots.

His wish was answered in the
championship win against Hampden—
Sydney, as Martin exploded for four
goals against the tliird-ranked in the
nation, including the Generals’ first

is, then avenges April 14 defeat to Hampden-Sydney to seize ODAC Tournament crown

MARCHIN’ ON: Senior Andrew Barnett
tallied six points (3 goals, 3 assists) in
two ODAC Tournament victories.

Fink also scored his team-leading
32”“ goal of the season and dished
out two assists. Sanders made 10
saves.

The Generals return to action on
Saturday with a 1:30 p.m. home con-

 ,

Himpden-Sydney, the team that
A

Women’s

A; BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s lacrosse team be-
lgan their road through the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
‘.5 ence Tournament by hosting Sweet Briar in a quarterﬁnals
I game for the ODAC tournament.
M In a completely one-sided match, the second—seeded
,'Generals annihilated the seventh—seeded Vixens with a
gﬁnal score of 16-1.

The Generals played the first half with consummate
‘skill; jumping ~to~an— early lead -and vneverlooking back.
5;Freshman Kitt Murphy scored four goals in the ﬁrst half,
giwhile sophomore Kelly Taffe put in three goals and an

Aiassist. Sweet Briar’s Ginger Tripp scored their only goal
{of the game with 13:31 remaining in the first half. The
:;Go(erals held a commanding 12-1 lead at halftime.

 The second half brought a bit more restraint from
§W&L’s offense, but the Generals scored four more goals

""10 wrap up the game. The scoring was decidedly distrib-
:uted throughout the game, with nine Generals scoring
 two others contributing an assist each. Sophomore
ggoalkeepers Joanna Perini and Annie Tompkins each gar-

gfnered a single save for the Generals.
 Senior captain Courtenay Fisher felt her squad held a
Iifgreat deal of confidence and was enthusiastic about thd
grnatchup with Sweet Briar.
 “We played them earlier in the season (to a 23-5 win)
 kind of expected that we would win,” Fisher said.

_ BY DAVID CROWELL

 ’ SPORTS EDITOR

k The Washington and Lee men’s and women’s track
lgprograms competed in the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-

“ence Championships on Saturday afternoon, with both

‘ ads taking a ﬁfth place ﬁnish out of ﬁve teams. The

en ﬁnished with 61 points while the women totaled 14.5

:3 oints.

_ The Lynchburg men ﬁnished with an astounding 217
?‘points en route to winning its ﬁfth straight ODAC Cham-
jpionships. The Roanoke women earned the champion-
iﬁship with 195 points. ~ ~

 Junior Chris Sullivan led the men’s squad by earning
A-top seven finishes in four different events. Sullivan won
f£:Il'16 long jump with a leap of 6.69 meters and also placed
::'.,second in the 100 meter dash (11.20), fifth in the 200

Ailrneter dash (23.55) and seventh in the javelin throw
§(43.18m).

 “Chris had an outstanding meet,” coach Norris Aldridge
fhsaid. “Guys like Chris, that worked really hard through the
,;entire season, found great success at this meet.”

 Junior Mat Ropoza also took home an individual title in
gthe shot put, throwing 13.66 meters on his ﬁnal toss to
fifseize the championship.

   
 



 Alumni.

' -W;-},jgg;.':§’*

championship and an automatic

three goals in the victory over

  
 

BALANCING ACT: Senior Julie Carskadon attempts to elude
an opponent during the Generals’ 16-1 victory over Sweet

With the conclusion of the ODAC tournament ap-
proaching, Fisher looked ahead. “I’m excited for this week-
end — there will be more challenging teams that we’ll be
ready for.”

Senior co—captain Mike Hegg returned from nagging
injuries in order to ﬁnish second in the 1 10-meter hurdles
(15.85) and also took ﬁfth-place finishes in the 400—meter
hurdles and javelin throw.

“Considering how little time Mike had in order to pre-
pare himself, he did an excellent job,” Aldridge said.

In team events, the Generals also took home a second-
place finish in the 4x 100 meter relay, coming in at 43 .06, a
season best.

Despite ﬁnishing in ﬁfth place, behind Roanoke by a
mere four points, Aldridge was not disappointed by his
team’s performance. The veteran coach played up the im-
portance of injuries to the ﬁnal outcome.

“We had some injuries to key competitors. (Fresh-
men) Wes Bell and Reid Childers didn’t run. Wes be-
ing gone cost us about 20 points,” Aldridge said. “I
thought we could’ve finished as high as third without
injuries.”

On the women’s side, field event competitors led
the way, with senior Sarah Schmidt taking a third-
place finish in the javelin with a throw of 37.60m.
Schmidt failed in her attempt to win four straight
ODAC titles. .

“Sarah threw farther than she’s ever thrown in ODAC
competition,” coach John Tucker said. “Unfortunately,

half.

Mm‘ (3ur/ The Rirg;-tum Phi
Briar on Wednesday afternoon. The defensive u.nit had very
little trouble, as the visitors only mustered three shots.

Head coach Jan Hathorn was also pleased with
her team’s performance, saying “it’s always nice to

win. .
Hathorn stopped short of naming individual out-

Championships

she was up against two national performers and we hope
she’ll reach the qualifying distance in the next few
weeks.”

Senior Megan Babst took home a fifth—place ﬁnish in
the highjump with a leap of 4’- 10”.

Senior captain Melissa Palombo just missed earning
points for the team by seizing a sixth-place ﬁnish in the
triple jump.

Numerous competitors, including sophomores Vanessa
Adams and Lauren Egbert, and freshmen Liz Crawford
and Audrey Walker finished seventh place in various
events.

These athletes also reached a number of personal best.

‘Tucker said that team members achieved 16 new personal

bests.
Tucker also stressed the continual improvement of his

younger athletes and the possibility for growth in the

future.

“There is prorriise for the younger athletes like Audrey
who, if they keep improving, will be earning big points for
us in a few years,” he said.

The women’s squad returns to action when they com-
pete at the Christopher Newport Invitational next Satur-
day. The men’s squad next competes on May 11, at the
James Madison Invitational.

Please send $30 check to:

Want to ‘
keep up
what’s going
  on at W&L

1 next year?

The Fling-tum Phi
University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
(540) 462-4060
phi @ w/u.edu

three of the game.

.a.

test against Division II Limestone.

acrosse feels sting of Yellow Jackets, falls short in defense of ODAC title

standing efforts and praised her team’s perfor-
mance.

“Everybody does something in a game like that — it
was a very good team effort.”

The Generals advanced to the semifinal game
against Roanoke on Saturday, and defeated the Ma-
roons in an 8-4 "decision at Randolph—Macon College
in Ashland, VA.

At the half, the Generals had a 5-1 lead, with
two goals each from sophomores Kelly Taffe and
Lee Wheeler, and another added by senior Emily
Q.“/ens._.~...-....,.. . 1. 7. . , ..;  . . . . .. .

The second half brought another goal from Taffe and
two more from junior Leslie Bogart.

“We played Roanoke over a week ago and beat them
by one goal. We were very excited to play them again —
they’re a good team,” Fisher said.

With the victory, the Generals proceeded to the ODAC
Championship game against the top-seeded Yellow Jack-
ets of Randolph—Macon on Sunday afternoon. That, un-
fortunately, proved to be the Generals’ Waterloo.

After a stellar ODAC Tournament, the Generals
could not hold onto an 11-4 lead and eventually
lost to the Yellow Jackets 12-11 in overtime, on a
goal by senior Erin Riedy, who tallied seven on the
day.

Bogart led the Generals with a goal and three assists.

The Generals will play their ﬁnal game of the season
when they host Longwood at 12 p.m. on Saturday.

W&L Sports Schedule: April 29 - May 5

Friday, May3
Baseball
Savannah A&D@W&L, 3 p.m.
Saturday, May4
Baseball
Savannah A&D@W&L, 1 p.m.
Men’s Lacrosse
Limestone@W&L, 1:30 p.m.
Women’s Lacrosse
Longwood@W&L, 12 p.m.
Women’s Track
W&L@Christopher Newport Invitational
Sunday, May5
Baseball
Mary Washington@W&L, 2 p.m.

Hing-tum Phi
Subschpﬁons

 

  



BY IAN R. MCILROY
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s tennis team
steamrolled over its conference competition to claim
its seventh straight Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence championship. Held at Lynchburg, the chain-
pionship marked the Generals’ 21*‘ conference charn—

pionship in the last 26 years.

Picking up 72 points, the Generals dominated
their strongest conference rivals. Lynchburg Col-
lege placed second with 55 points, and Hampden-

Sydney ﬁnished third with 49 points.

W&L demolished all match play opponents, cap-
turing the championship of all six singles and all

three doubles ﬂights.

Senior Rhys James was named the ODAC Player
of the Year after winning the No. 1 singles and

doubles ﬂights.

Freshman Paul McClure and senior Andrew Rob-
erts overcarne tough competition in the cha1npion-
ship round of their ﬂights to win the number 2 and
3 singles, respectively. Roberts partnered with James

for the number one doubles victory.

Doubles partners and sophomores Graham Nix
and Austin Kim easily captured the No. 2 doubles
ﬂight. Then, in singles play, Kim proceeded to win

 .   ttttttttttt , 

Generals, James sweep ODAC foes

.' ". xx’:-'1': xi I-‘ma

the No. 4 bracket, while Nix breezed through his

competition in the N o. 5 ﬂight.

In his last ODAC championship, senior Rob
Moynihan lost only one game at No. 6 singles in
three rounds of tournament play. Rounding out the
scoring for the Generals were McClure and sopho-

more K.C. Schaefer, who captured the championship
of the No. 3 doubles ﬂight.
On his selection as ODAC Player of the Year, James

remained fairly modest.

PLAYER or THE YEAR: Senior Rhys James serves in a
March 16 win.]ames won the ODAC No. 1 singles and
doubles championships on Tuesday afternoon.

“The fact that we won every match at this year’s

 

MONDAY, APRIL 29, 2005

tournament was truly special, although it is an
honor to receive the award from the coaches.”

MARY GUY/ The Rir/Kg-lzm Phi

James’ teammates could not agree more with
the coaches’ selection.

“We were all really pleased that Rhys was
named player of the year,” said Schaefer. “It was
a great accomplishment to top off his already very
accomplished career at W&L.”

Fresh off their win at the ODAC tournament,
the Generals have begun preparations for the up-
coming matches in the NCAA South Regional.

“We have two intense weeks of practice left,
so we just need to remain focused and work hard,
”James stated.

With a top two ﬁnish in the regional, the Gen-
erals would then move on the national touma-
ment. With a berth in the national tournament as
their goal, the Generals hope to cap off their suc-
cessful season with a couple of big wins.

The Generals faced a potential opponent in
the South Regional when they defeated Sewanee,
4-3, onApril 18.

James faced defeat at No. 1 singles, 6-2, 4-6, 6-2,
at the hands of Adam Kent, but W&L responded
by winning four of the next ﬁve singles ﬂights.

McClure, Roberts, Kim and Moynihan all won
their respective singles ﬂights.

In doubles competitions, Sewanee stole away

ﬂight.

two of the three ﬂights, with McClure and Schaefer
picking up an 8-3 victory at the No. 3 doubles

The Generals will learn whom they have to face

in the postseason sometime this week.

Golf places second at Fincastle C.C.,
Campbell earns top ODAC honors

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee golf team
hit the links on Monday and Tues-
day for the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference championships, played at
Fincastle Country Club in Blueﬁeld,
VA

Shooting a two day total of 604,
the Generals took second place, fall-
ing to Guilford College by a mere ﬁve
strokes. Third-place Hampden
Sydney ﬁnished 14 strokes behind the
Generals.

Junior Chip Campbell shot a two
day total of 147 (74-73) to garner sec-
ond place on the individuals’ leader
board, ﬁnishing ﬁve strokes behind
Dave Patterson of Guilford.

 

Freshmen Carlos Spaht and Ged
Johnson, and junior Chuck Green also
turned in good performances, with all
three placing in the top 10.

Campbell and Spaht, who placed
sixth at the ODAC Championships,
received proper recognition by earn-
ing spots on the All-ODAC Touma-
ment team.

In addition, Campbell was named
to the All-ODAC team, announced
on Wednesday afternoon. He leads
the Generals in stroke average this
year, at 75.6 strokes over 18 rounds
of play.

“It’s a great honor to be voted to
the all—conference team by the other
coaches. It was a tough tournament —
windy conditions made it hard, and
Guilford was a little too much to over-

BY DAVID CROWELL
SPORTS EDITOR

league crown.

points.

7-6 (5).

MARY GU\'/ The Kingtzrm Phi
BACKHAND: Marie Trimble unleashes a shot in her semiﬁnal.

The Hollins University women’s tennis
team sent a shockwave through Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference play by win-
ning three singles brackets and all three
doubles ﬂights en route to clairriing the

Hollins finished with 60 points, just
outlasting Washington and "Lee Uni-
versity. The Generals totaled 53

Roanoke sophomore Ashley Fleming
earned ODAC Player of the Year recogni-
tion after she won the No. 1 singles flight,
defeating freshman Marie Trimble 7-5, 3-6,

Washington and Lee University
placed a competitor in all but one

come,” Campbell said.

Guilford swept the major
postseason awards, as Savio Nazareth
garnered ODAC Player of the Year
honors and his coach, Jack Jensen,
earned Coach of the Year recognition.

Campbell earned his second con-
secutive selection to the All-ODAC
Tournament team. He earned a spot
last season after posting a third-place
ﬁnish at last year’s ODAC Champi-
onships. It was the jur1ior’s first se-
lection to the All-ODAC team.

Not basking in the limelight,
Campbell offered praise to the
younger players who performed well
this season — Spaht and Johnson.

“Carlos is looking great — he’s a
very good player; he’s got a solid
swing and a good overall game. To

match.

tie it.

sure.”

ﬂight, but faced defeat in six finals
matches.

At No. 2 singles, sophomore Ellie
Simpson was defeated 7-6 (2), 6-2 in the
finals by Hollins sophomore Anne
Stephenson.

Freshman Lora Farris led the Gener-
als by winning the No. 4 singles ﬂight,
defeating Sweet Briar’s Brooke
Sagalowsky 7-5, 3-6, 6-4 in a thrilling

“I was very proud of how Lora played,”
coach Cinda Rankin said. “She was down
5-1 in the tiebreaker set and came back to

“She picked up her game im-
mensely, especially in her service

game, and played with great compo-

Sophomore Emily Taylor faced de-

do what he did as a freshman is very
good,” he said. “Ged also did very
well — he just missed making the All-
ODAC Tournament team.”

The Generals ﬁnished their season
when they travelled to Middletown,
Delaware for the Scotty Duncan Invi-
tational on Saturday and Sunday.

W&L ﬁnished third out of 12 teams
after shooting a two day score of 603

‘ (302-301).

The Generals ﬁnished 16 strokes
behind the team champion Navy and
10 strokes behind Lehigh.

Campbell paced the way for the
Generals by shooting a 147 (74-73) and
seizing ninth place.

Johnson ﬁnished one stroke be-
hind Campbell, good enough to take
1 1th place.

feat at No. 5 singles, losing 5-7, 6-3,
6-1 to Hollins sophomore Kendra
Perry.

Washington and Lee freshman From a team standpoint, the ODAC
Championships have no effect on na-
tional rankings. The Generals stand to»;

Kristin Crawford grabbed the final
title for the Generals on Sunday af-
ternoon, winning the No. 6 singles
crown over Bridgewater’s Anne Yust
6-3, 6-3.

In the doubles flights, W&L
were present in each of the final
matches.

At No. 1 doubles, Trimble and Simpson
fell to the team from Hollins by a score of
6-4.7-5.

Taylor and Farris fell at No. 2 doubles,
while Crawford and freshman Meredith
Bailey dropped the championship at No. 3
doubles.

“Those six got tremendous experi-

W&L ousted *
from postseason play-

BY DAVID CROWELL
SPORTS EDITOR

For most college baseball play-
ers, it’s deﬁnitely beneﬁcial not to
play 162 games, or any number re-
motely close to the Major League
model. With fewer games, however,
each individual contest means that
much more.

The Washington and Lee base-

_ball team learned this truth the hard

way in the month of April, losing a
key doubleheader to Lynchburg
that ultimately removed them from
postseason play.

Guilford officially removed the
Generals from the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference Tournament with
an April 20 split.

“Our number one goal at the be-
ginning of the year was to go to the
tournament, but we’re not devas-
tated,” coach Jeff Stickley said. “We
knew what we had to do in confer-
ence play, but it was tough coming
off the break against Lynchburg. In
the end, the top six teams in the con-
ference probably could’ve ﬁnished
anywhere from one to six.”

Junior Brian Gladysz, leading the
team in hitting with a .383 batting
average up to Sunday afternoon,
showed a bit more emotion.

“It’s very frustrating to lose any
games to teams that you know you
can beat,” he said. “But it really be-
comes frustrating when they are
teams that you need to beat to get
into the postseason.”

In an April 13 doubleheader
against Lynchburg, the Generals
suffered from a lack of offense in 3-
0 and 4-3 losses. In the first game,
Lynchburg southpaw Blair Hayden
tossed a complete—game, three-hit-
ter, striking out five batters.

“(Hayden) is one of the top
pitchers in the league. He threw a
one-hitter against Eastern Menno-
nite, so we can’t feel frustrated with
that,” Stickley said.

I In game two, Gladysz ensured the
Generals would not go scoreless on
the day, hitting an RBI double in the
top of the first inning. The Hornets,
however, responded with four runs

out.

still

in the bottom of the inning, getting
help from a W&L error and a balk by
sophomore Dan Kagey. "

The Generals attempted a come-
back, as a third inning RBI double
by senior Todd Gosselink and a sev-
enth inning RBI groundout by se-,
nior Matt Kozora cut Lynchburg’s
lead to 4-3. W&L couldn’t move the
winning run across the plate in the
seventh however. ,

Junior Michael Hanson scored all”
three runs for the Generals.

“We got good pitching and lie-
cent defense,” Stickley said. “But it
was bad timing, coming off the break”,
and we couldn’t get the key hits
when we needed them.” _

In the first game against Guilford,
the Generals beneﬁted from a great
performance -on the mound by‘
sophomore Peter Dean. Dean, who
improved to 5-3 and lowered his
earned run average to 1.52, threw a
complete—game, six-hitter and struck ,
out ﬁve, leading W&L to a 3-0 vic-
tory.

In game two, the Quakers exacted
some revenge, scoring six runs in
the second inning and eight runs in
the third to cruise to a 15-7 win.

Kagey took the loss, lasting only
1 2/3 innings. Kozora ﬁnished the
afternoon 3-for-3 with a pair of walks ,.
and two runs batted in.

With the completion of ODAC
play, both Stickley and Gladysz
agreed that hitting woes prevenlled
the Generals from enjoying more”
conference success.

“The way we pitched and played
in the ﬁeld often gave us a chance
to win; we just couldn’t get the‘
clutch hits,” Stickley said.

Gladysz reiterated W&L’s excel-
lence in the ﬁeld, saying “our pitch-
ing and defense has been solid
throughout the year, just as it was)-
last year. We just haven’t been able
to put runs on the board when we
needed to.”

The Generals return to the dia-
mond with a Friday home contest”
at Cap’n Dick Smith Field at 3 p.m.
against the Savarmah College of Art
and Design.

)i

It

Generals fall t Hollins, but look toward national competition

ence this past weekend,” Rankin said.
“They all really played their hearts‘

97

gain a top berth in the South Re-

gional.

On April 20, W&L faced a key com-

petitor in the South Regional, the Tigers ,
of Sewanee. The Generals came out with

a 9-0 victory. .

tion
see

"Iris.  performance car. It's part multipu rp-use carzyall. It's part cutttng-edge transportation. And it’s a1‘EToyota.
It's Matrix, an entirely new breed ofvehlcle — stop-and-stare good looks. standard air conditioning. up to 180 H?
with an availahile 6-speed. Matrix is designed to be whatever you. want. including affordable -5 starting at $1 5,1105 ".

. . j’

Test: Drive Matrix At Your
Toyota Dealer Today!

one  
GET THE FEELIRE TOYQTA.

m~w.tovata.cam

‘l'I‘LS"?4P LKCLEJDING TAXES. TAKE.  5&5
M«EUP'ﬂOl’»1Al..EQ.lII‘l'I&fNl: M0051 3933

SHOWN. DEALER SETS F|l'ilr‘I.L PRICE.

‘J

$ETOYOTA

“Rhodes College is a school that
we will have to get by to get to na-
als and Sewanee allowed us to.,\
stand against "
Rhodes,” Rankin added. “We also
beat Trinity, a team Rhodes defeated,
so I believe we’re in a good posi-
tion. A

where we

99

 

