‘F

I

V»

 

Worst rate in 5 years, says
Student Health Center

BY MCQUEEN CALVEKT AND KATIE HowEu.
STAFF WRHER AND EDITOR IN cnnar

Student drinking rates are at an all-time
high for the month of September, campus
health care officials said, based on increased
numbers of inﬁrrnary and hospital visits.

As of Sept. 25, 23 students have vis-
ited the Washington and Lee Health Cen-
ter since freshman orientation activities
began earlier this month, said Dr. Jane
Horton, director of health services.

Ofthose23,18werefreshmen.Bothnum-
bers reﬂect higher students drinking rates than
any other September in the past ﬁve years.

The inﬂux of freshman drinking-related
infirmary visits is due to pressure from up-
perclassman students, Horton said.

“It is more of an upper class problem
because of the environment they surround
the freshmen with,” she said.

Last September, ﬁve freshmen of 18
students visited the inﬁrmary during. The
previous September, 10 freshmen of 11 stu-
dents went to the inﬁrmary in September
for alcohol or drug-related problems.

Interfraternity Council advisor Matt
Jacobs attributes the rise in freshmen drink-
ing incidents to the number of parties
thrown on and off campus.

Fraternities threw 12 parties on-
campus during the first week of school,

' Jacobs said.

“The increase in the amount of fresh-
men visits to the Health Center is (also)
due to the increase in the amount of off-
campus parties, which the IFC does not
have authority to regulate,” Jacobs said.

Upperclass students agree that the so-
cial situations at W&L intensify freshman
drinking health problems.

A JuniorErinJohr1son neverdrankinhigh
school. She said that she began drinking at
W&L bec rlise beer was “always there.”

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

NG-TUM

}—+

PHI

V0LUMECV,N0.IX
MONDAY, SEPIEMBER 30, 2002

The rtrrrlcrrt none of Wellington and Lee University since 7897 (0 Online at: jrlrrlrrr/rr.rrlrr

September



;; it Student yisits 3

FR ALL ER 0 FR
2002

“Looking back, the fall of my fresh-
man year was the most excessive drinking
of all my time at W&L, simply because it
was so available, and even though I never
felt pressured to do it, I still drank in ex-
cess,” Johnson said.

Sophomore Anne Bounds agreed that
W&L’s social scene encouraged her to
drink excessively as a freshman.

“Drinking made it easier to meet
people early on, but you stayed better
friends with people who you did more stuff
with, and who weren’t simply social
friends,” Bounds said.

Health ofﬁcials do not blame the fra-
ternity system itself, but rather the drink-
ing traditions at W&L for the upsurge of
freshman drinking problems this year.

“Freshmen come here, often with no

Political atmosphere

College Republicans largest
chapter per-capita in Va.

BY ANDREW LATIMER
NEWS EDITOR

To Washington and Lee’s College
Republicans, the Grand Old Party just got
even grander.

Membership numbers for the campus’
largest political organization topped 607
students this year, representing about 34
percent of the undergraduate population.
The total is up from roughly 200 last year.

College Republicans Executive Direc-
tor Megan Zingarelli ’05 remarked, “That
makes us the largest club per capita in the
country and the second largest in the state.”

A She added, “Only UVAbeat us in vu-
ginia with about 800 members, but they
have thousands more students than
W&L.” According to CR President John
Heath ’04, the average College Republi-
can chapter can claim about 5 to 15 per-
cent of the student body.

The boost most likely is the result of
an excellent retention rate, as well as a sig-
nifrcant inﬂux of interested freshmen.

The news comes as little surprise to
some students, as the University was

EC releases
allocation data

FROM STAFF REPORTS

The Executive Committee of the Student Body appor-
tioned $350,773.85 after hearings last Wednesday and
Thursday. The Pavilion received $44,835.64; the E.C. Re-
serve, $7,452; E.C. Honor Reserve, $2,0()0; and the Stu-

dent Body Working Reserve, $l8,0()0.

The remaining $278,486 was divided among 49 clubs.

Seven clubs received no funding.

“This is the ﬁrst year in history that the Calyx is inde-
pendent of university funding,” said senior Neal \lV1lletts,

editor of the school yearbook.

LIFE, which historically received no EC fundings,

was given $1,000.

“The money is for ‘A Night to Remember, not the

clu ,” said LIFE ofﬁcer Jennifer Parks.

named “most nostalgic for Reagan” by the
latest edition of The Princeton Review. -

CR Chairman Benjamin Bryant ’03
stated, “I think it is awesome that Princeton
Review is ﬁnally giving us recognition for
what we students have always known here
on campus.”

He added, “President Reagan was a
great leader of great character, and the fact
thatweasacampuslookuptohimwith
great nostalgia is truly a tribute to the nature
of the character of students here at W& 

Organization members hope to re-
bound from last year’s defeat of Republi-
can gubernatorialcandidate Mark Earley.
Despite the canvassing of dorms and nu-
merous awareness—raising activities on
and off campus, Democrat Mark Warner
trounced Earley in Lexington by an over ‘
30-percentage point margin.

Under Va. Law, students are eligible
to register to vote in local and state elec-
tions. There is currently no data on how
many students opt to reregister in Lexing-
ton. The deadline for registration is Oct. 7.

This year CR has thrown its support
behind 24"‘ district House of Delegates
candidate Benjamin Cline. Heath said,
“Additionally, we’re concentrating on ex

See REPUBLICANS, page 2

ALL
1 998

alcohol-related intirmary visits

FR = Freshman intirmary visits
ALL = Total student intirmary visits A
ER = Totai student emergency room visits

ER FR ALL ER FR.

1999

ALL
2000

EH. FR ALL ER
2001

Ncciumrc1n'KmE Homr. / TlxRr'vg4trrrrPl2z; nmotrxnnrsr OFWWW.295GUYS.COM/ cormrmarnuaornasmir.

experience of drinking or even the drink-
ing environment,” Horton said. “It isn’t
because we have an especially rowdy
group of freshmen, just that they are be-
ing put into this environment and don’t
know how to behave.”

Freshmen agree that the social cul-
ture at W&L increases their opportunities
to consume alcohol.

Freshman Bo Root said, “(The drink-
ing scene at W&L) is awesome!”

“If you are not drinking at a party, you
do feel kind of out of place simply because
of the massive amounts of upperclassmen
and freshmen who are drinking,” agreed
freshman Alex Battey.

Freshmen, however, are not the only
students increasing their visits to the Stu-
dent Health Center. ’ " 0‘ ‘

According to the Student Health Cen-
ter records, upperclassmen have also fre-
quented the inﬁrmary more this month than
in previous Septembers. The statistics
show seven sophomores and five juniors
receiving medical care at the inﬁrmary this
month, while no sophomores and one jun-
ior visited it last September. For more sta-
tistics, see the infographic above.

The Princeton Review also noted
W&L’s tendency toward alcohol in its re-
cent survey. Among the 337 U.S. colleges
and universities reviewed, it reported
W&L as third place in the “biggest Greek
scene” category, fourth place in “amount
of hard liquor” consumed and ﬁfth place
in “amount of beer” consumed.

See DRINIQNG, page 2 ..

heats up on campus

Cline, Elrod vie for state delegate seat as school is torn

  

4.4" ' '>'.
(IXJKIJESYCX3

ARRIVAL Elroddescends into athrongofwell-
wishcrs at the announcement of her candidacy.

BY DREW DAVENPORT
STAFF wrnnr

In just over one month, voters in 24th
district of Virginia will elect a replacement for
House of Delegates Speaker S. Vance Wilkins
Jr. The Nov. 5 special election will determine
who represents Virginians from Rockbridge
County and parts of Amherst and Augusta
Counties in the Virginia House of Delegates.

After serving for 24 years, Mr. Wilkins
resigned in June due to controversy aris-

 

across party lines, personal connections to both candidates

ing from allegations that he sexually ha-
rassed former ofﬁce worker Jennifer L.
Thompson on more than one occasion.
After the allegations surfaced, Mr. Wilkins
paid Ms. Thompson a $100,000 settlement.

Competing for the seat is Democrat
Mimi Elrod, Director of W&L’s Summer
Scholars program and wife of the late
former W&L president John Elrod. She is
running against Republican Ben Cline,
former Chief-of-Staff for U.S. Rep. Bob
Goodlatte and son of W&L Williams
School professor Philip Cline.

“This part of Virginia lost a great ad-
vocate and a lot of clout in Richmond when
Vance Wilkins resigned,” Cline said. “The
representative needs experience and
knowledge of government progress to
make sure this area gets an appropriate
level of representation in Richmond.”

Cline, a Lexington native who gradu-
ated from Lexington High School in 1990,
grew up with a strong community service
emphasis, he said. He volunteered for or-
ganizations such as Meals on Wheels,

See ELECTION, page 2

cm nro\1nn)Ex'niEr:><EcLmvE(1r»0rr1'iI,rAErEEYMArnrEw MCDERlvKJl'l"/T/ltRI'Jgl10IIPlv'

   

dentshavealsofundedtheevent.

    

morocrxrmsi jot‘/it.
DECADE. 'IlielastyaraDerrro<1aticcorrvmt'nr1Vwslr¢:ldwas’92

Mock Con sets
final deadlines

BY MATT!-IEW MCDERMUIT
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Vifrtiraniajorityoftliesteeringconnrrimetobeappoirrted
earlynextweek,MockConve-ntionhasshitledintohighgear.

A student-rim organization with a $400,000 bud-
get, the 2004 Mock Con will simulate and predict the
nominee of that year’s Democratic Convention.

“We’re choosing the chairs of various commit-
tees,” said Personnel Tri-Chair Jacquelyn Clark. Com-
mittees, whose chairs will conduct their own interviews,
will oversee accommodations, finances, the Conven-
tion Journal, speakers, memorabilia, and the web page.

Clark’s colleagues are fellow juniors Noah Rhodes,
general tri—chair, and Michael Denbow, political tri—chair.

“The date is ﬁrmly Jan. 30th
and 31st,” said General Tri-Chair
Noah Rhodes. Mock Con now oc-
curs earlier in the year than ever
before, due to the advancement of
primaries like Super Tuesday.

“(The Tri-Chairs) were ap-
pointed late, so we had to catch
up,” Rhodes said.

The Executive Board, the
Tri-chairs and the secretary and
treasurer, will later choose more steering committee
members, such as the ﬁve regional chairs.

“For now in early stages, the last thing we want
‘are enthusiastic‘ workers with nothing to do,” Rhodes
said. When the time comes, however, “We strongly
urge freshmen to apply. We urge everyone to apply.”

“Everything willbeﬁ1llyrunr1ingnextFall,”Cla1ksaid

Work is currently underway for the Spring Kick-
off, traditionally a week-long event.

“(The Spring Kickoff) will be ﬁnalized when the
speaker and the band, in that order of importance, are
chosen,” Rhodes said.

Denbow is attempting to get two speakers for the
Kickoff, Clark said, an unprecedented occurrence.

Also on the burner is further fundraising.

“Roughly half of our
($400,000) budget comes from
fundraising,” Rhodes said.
“We’re traveling to eight cities.”

Mock Convention has also been
incontactwith national rnediaoutlets.

“There will be gavel—to-gavel
coverage of the Convention,” Clark
said. “We’re talking to CNN, C-
SPAN, and MTV ’s Rock-the-Vote.”

“We want to make this an
event for local and state media too,” Rhodes added.

Complicating things was Mock Con’s recent move
to a Mod Hall trailer from its room in the University
Center basement, the former Trident Ofﬁce.

The former Journalism classroom has a private of-
ﬁce for each tri—chair, and a large central working room.

“We needed the space for storage,” Clark said.

“We are not building an empire,” Rhodes said.
“The space will be used. Soon people will be com-
ing in and out, regularly.”

Rhodes thanked Dean of the Commerce School
Larry Peppers, Dean of Students David Howison, As

 

RHODES

CLARK

See MOCK CON, page 2

H' a ' H '1 ' Cl
N mmi ' d
S.A.B. $70,000 Habitat for Humanity $2,000 Gay-Straight Alliance $600 “Y Mm“ M°DE"““” througartrﬁtete  C; S
S.B.A. $57,000 Law Speakers Guild $2,000 Club Lacrosse (W) $500 EDITOR IN CHIEF S 1 61,3 Bureau King aid
Contact $44,000 Women’s Forum $1,750 Political Review $500 Th ﬁm H. . . A 1 . I .’ th Dan . M _
Mock Convention $18,000 journal of Science $1,600 Club Volleyball $500 event inewashington  mg N638, NavsaI1l:tt:is alszs a 23:-
T   Cl b  DQOCC  T S0\ltE1l:l'I1. C;)ﬂll.‘0fC   Sponsored  the  Stu_  editor to Newsweek.
Naborsrll::v.;:e $8,500 u W55?  $1,400  2400 dent Amciaﬁon’ Said MSA President Navamme “is the most widely
’   ad Hi " alit'th
FilmhSo(c;1'}eIt3  I.ib:ty;1allC\l’o:).  U1 .   M Rfgen Isavan-gag, J1-_, a na1jona]]y lJnit:(duSfate:ffu::<J:::dIings tbn th:
tt , , um t . . . - .
Java aPube Board $3 000 W&L ciizegfadilrllg $1,200 al\;enr’l.:Pel1:lan‘t1l1 $200 Sym‘°at°d °°hm"s"“'da"'h°”w'nd°' S°1°m°“b"°f'H°was pr°ﬁ1°dbyH"'
_ , ’ ' liver a Lee Chapel speech this Thursday, panic magazine as one of the 30 most
112 Rrr1g- P111 3000 LIFE 1000 00 . . .
C mrillgby $2,375 KEwL$ $800 Order of 01:; £00 wel°°m° t° the New Wmld‘ H°w accomphshed people under ﬁlmy’
’ Amen’ ’ Iatino Populati Shape Aregular contnbutortothe“S1mday
Ice Hockey $2,747 Fencing $675 Wornen’s Philanth. $200 mczlsias ,, mwm Opimm, Section of The Los Ange,“
Ar-1' 1 2,700 3 675 Th h 150 , Ce‘. ."“"‘ , . .
SM: 32 675 Mindben . gig: E650  °“"° °‘;‘;::hﬁ150 ‘This IS pan of MSAs anempt to Tmes,hehasbecnP“bhshedbYﬂteClu-
’ g ' broad its focus and xtivities,” said  cago Tribune and The Sacmmatto Bee.

The ,Col R bl’ ,7heTn'de G.C.F.,La Ft ,S.J.C.,andS&ELa ' "ed t d’ . ‘“°“‘3’“‘°0‘ﬁ°e°f‘l‘°D°3“°f‘*“°C°1‘ F‘°S“°Pa°‘ﬁ°U‘“V°’S“Y’G°°‘g°‘°“’“°
Ca” we 9” ms '7" W "gby wS°°'eW'e°e" "°""'"g legeandtheOﬂiceoftheDeanofSt11- Oberlin,’ Anzona' StateUniversrty' ,Harvard

andUCSantaBarbara.

 

 

 

  

* ';v'./

  
 

’ ~';2 p‘i‘£‘n*. iii  ~;
aw‘. in 6 .3; ';"+."l'I“‘~.«‘3,!l‘r’
1*-ya ;~.¢ﬂ'.'§;

131'}

~ I.-‘."‘.
PAGE
OCT  E3 

.y.-,,.-“

N EWS

Cline, Elrod to square off Nov. 5

ELECTION, from page 1

Wheels, Habitat for Humanity and Literacy Volunteers of
America. After graduating from Bates College, Cline worked
in Rep. Goodlatte’s ofﬁce for eight years, spending the ﬁnal
year and a half as Rep. Goodlatte’s Chief—of-Staff.

Elrod is an active member of the Lexington commu-
nity, serving on a number of community boards such as
mental health, church outreach and sexual assault. Each
candidate has actively fundraised

“When people have to choose between medicine or
eating, there is a problem,” she said.

Cline also wants to solve high healthcare costs, but by
“bridging the uninsured gap between Medicaid and em-
ployer—based insurance,” and possibly awarding tax breaks
to employers who provide insurance to employees.

In terms of improving education, Cline would like to
raise teacher salaries and will lobby for more state funding of
maintenance and operation of the public schools in the area.
Right now, the bulk of maintenance and

during the campaign.

The most recent ﬁnancial reports,
available on the Virginia Public Access
Project’s website (www.vpap.org), indi-
cate that Elrod’s campaign has raised a
total $68,674 and spent $27,376. Elrod’s
single largest contribution was $l0,()()0,

ELECTION 2002

BENJAMIN CLINE (R)

A native ofthe area, he is the son of
management and economics profes-
sor Phillip Cline.He worked for Con-
gressman Goodlatte for 8 years, and

operation costs are being ﬁnanced lo-
cally, he said.

Cline is committed to bringing more
jobs to the area by luring business and
fostering good cooperation between the
local chambers and economic develop-
ment ofﬁces. He also recognizes the need

given by H.F. Ienfest. Cline’s campaign this is his first run for political ofﬁCe_ for economic improvement.

has raised $44,696 and spent$12,961ofit. Funds raised $44,696, “We need to address the budget deﬁ-
His largest donation of $6,000 came from _ buSineSs_oriemed cit through wasteful unnecessary spend-
the Committee forRepubhcan Leadership. _ against raising taxes ing rather than raising taxes,” he said

In a recent debate Elrod accused Cline of
being ﬁnancially backed by contributors
to Rep. Goodlatte. In t:urn, Cline expressed
that Elrod was being supported by W&L
trustees.

Both candidates hope to make an
immediate impact in Richmond.

“The two previous adniinistra—
tions left Virginia in an economic mess,”
she said. “I want to take a physically
conservative response to that.”

Elrod wants to focus on eco-
nomic development by bringing “bet-
ter jobs and more jobs” to the area.

“People here grow up and have
difficulty coming back to this area af-
ter college,” she said.

Having spent a career in education,
Elrod wants to improve public school

before.

- pro-choice

servative”

- more local control of education
- more funding for local police
- has stressed family values

MIMI ELROD (D)

As wife of the late John Elrod, she
has forged deep contacts within the
Washington and Lee community.
She has not run for political office

Funds ra/sea‘. $68,674*
- education-oriented
- anti-death penalty in Virginia

- labels herself as a “fiscal con-

- supports better pay for teachers

*as of Sept. 30. Data from www vpap. org

He solidified his commitment to
not raise taxes by speciﬁcally signing
a pledge stating that he would not
vote or support any tax increase. Elrod
did not sign the pledge, because she
wants to keep her options open.

“I am not going to Richmond to
raise taxes,” she said. “But I’m not go-
ing to sign a pledge that I can’t keep.”

W&L’s College Republicans are
actively involved in Ben Cline’s cam-
paign, president John Heath said.

They have sent volunteers to work
for Cline’s campaign office, campaign
door-to-door, distribute campaign litera-
ture and ﬁlm a commercial with Cline.
Heath feels reasonably conﬁdent in
Cline’s chances of victory.

“We want to irifoim people in the

students’ access to technology by in-
creasing installation of ﬁber optic cables. She also wants Vir-
ginia teachers to receive better ﬁnancial support because teacher
salaries in Virginia fall below the national average, she said.

One of Elrod’s biggest goals is ﬁnding a solution to
the current drought that has besieged Virginia. She wants
to implement a comprehensive state water plan, which
would set standards for water quality. She also wants Vir-
ginia to do a better job of conserving water. She person-
ally sent a letter to President Bush advocating drought
relief for farmers, in support of a current proposed $6 bil-
lion drought relief package.

“I personally want to do something about the prob-
lems,” she said. “(Politicians) get sidetracked and don’t
focus on the issues, which is bad for the public.”

She wants to fight rising healthcare costs by
making cheaper generic prescription drugs more
widely available.

. Vain Street, Lexington - 463-7522
' t. ll}:[l€’la.rri.-5 p.:_ir.: Sun. 13:00 a.rrr.~3:{ltip.rrr.

he ultimate etudwr tool - ¢20FFE«€.

community about Ben Cline and about
his positions,” Heath said. “I think his message resonates
with the district.”

Heath said that the College Republicans are even work-
ing with W&L’s Young Democrats to possibly form an on-
carnpus debate between Cline and Elrod. Young Democrats
could not be reached for comment.

Both candidates have used grassroots campaigning in
an effort to get their message out to the community. Elrod
walks about and meets people, listening to their concerns.

“I want to know what people care about,” she said.

Cline’s campaigning has been similar. He knocks on doors
to meet people and communicates with political and commu-
nity leaders.

Both candidates are also planning to air television
commercials locally before the election.

The winner of the election will serve the ﬁnal year of
Wilkins’ tenri. Anew election will be held in November 2003.

 

GIFT HOPPE I

‘.933.’

PART-TIME
STOCK ASSISTANT.
Hard-Working,
Well-Organized,
Strong Work Ethics.
Apply at The Shenandoah
Attic,

17 South Main St.,
Lexington
540-464-8383

Alcohol abuse spikes in Sept.

DRINKING, from page 1

The administration, however, is
not taking the implied drinking swell
lightly. The school administration
implemented a three—strike alcohol
violation system in the fall of 2001
to curb the number of underage
drinkers and excessive drinking in
fraternity houses.

Interfraternity Council helps
regulate this system by policing the
houses each weekend, making sure
that no drinking games or shots are
being taken, as well as checking for
mandatory sober ofﬁcers, security
and legally trained bartenders. Also,
new IFC policies, implemented in
2001 require all freshmen men join-
ing fraternities during Winter Term‘
to complete a TIPS program educat-
ing them in proper distribution of
alcohol and how to judge a student’s
intoxication.

As Homecoming weekend ap-
proaches, campus organizations pre-
pare to take alcohol precautions. IFC
President Chris Pickens does not an-
ticipate higher alcohol-related drink-
ing problems this weekend and will
make sure that the rules are enforced.

“(There will) probably be less irici—

dents because the frats are aware of the
problem, and know they take arisk when
throwing a party,” Jacobs said. “Every
precaution will be taken and if there is a
violation by the fraternity or by a stu-
dent, there will be serious repercus-
sions.”

Alcohol abuse during Home-
coming weekend remains a sensitive
issue at W&L because of the alco-
hol-related deaths of two under-
graduate students over Homecom-
ing Weekend, October 2000.

Health officials do not think
alcohol-related infirmary visits are
all bad, however. Authorities pre-
fer students to take care of their
health problems by coming to the
infirmary rather than ignoring
them, increasing the danger of se-
rious injury or death.

Horton said that inﬁrmary vis-
its usually slow down after the be-
ginning of the year as well.

“While many students visit the
Health Center, they rarely have an
occurrence of a student returning for
the same reason,” Horton said.

“W&L has a drinking tradition
which cannot be stopped,” said
Horton, who nonetheless believes stu-
dents should be safe while drinking.

CR sets sights on future

REPUBLICANS, from page 1

panding College Republicans to lo-
cal schools such as the W&L law
school, VMI and Southern Virginia
University, increasing awareness of
political issues, and bringing con-
servative voices to campus.”

He noted, “We’ve got a great
fundraising effort underway, and ex-
pect to raise close to $10,000 this
year to make sure that we remain the
best party on campus.”

Of the 607 associated with CR,
Heath estimates that there is a core
of 60-70 “extremely dedicat ” mem-
bers, which includes the steering
committee of 36 students and an ex-
ecutive board of 5 ofﬁcers.

“Approximately 70 people
showed up to our first meeting, and
the ofﬁcers have received countess
e-mails from students that couldn’t

make it but want to get involved,”
Heath said.

He detailed plans that involve
assigning dorm, fraternity and so-
rority leaders to get out the vote.
There will also be several social
events, which will culminate with an
election—night party.

“We’ve stepped up organi-
zation a lot this year,” said
Zingarelli.

Whether or not CR will play
a significant role in city and
county politics remains to be
seen, but Bryant stressed, “Re-
gardless of the outcome in any
election, or the impact we think
we might be able to have, it is
important that we do our civic
duty and go out and vote.”

For more infomiation about Wash-
ington and Lee College Republicans,
visit http://republicans.wlu.edu.

  

MONDAY, SEPFEMBER 30, 2002'

 

A notice from

The Executive Committee
of THE STUDENT BODY

Gerald M. Titus, III
President

Kempton W. Presley
I/zce President

Helen B. Hughes
Secretary

September 23, 2002

A member of the Student
Body has withdrawn after
being found guilty of an
Honor Violation. The
student took another’s
work from the Internet
and submitted it as his/her
own work for a Psychology

paper.

Mock Convention leaders

re/ease road map for 2004

MOCK CON, from page 1

sociate Dean of Students Leroy
Atkins, and University Architect Tom
Contos for assisting in the move.

“I was happy to be of assis-
tance,” said Howison. “In my entire
experience, this is the most impres-
sive student—run organization that
I’ve ever seen.”

Movement into the new ofﬁce
was delayed when Physical Plant
broke a key off in the door’s lock, Clark
said. Last Friday was the first meet-
ing in the new ofﬁce.

Mock Con will move again when-
ever space in the new University Com-
mons becomes available.

Try ours. t’r’s shade grown. organic
onct‘ON SALE this month. $7.99 crtl
flavors. Customer quote: “Ami
alioweo‘ to just stand here and smell’
your coffee? You don‘? mind, do you?“

Each Fruits

and Veggies -
portable, quick eats.
No Insecticides or pesticides.
Customer quote: “ You can eat
these. and they won '1‘ hurt you.

S tract: Feodv good friends good timer». “me me” In a road”

we have all manner of chips and dips.
sodas and solscis. juices. wcrter, you name It.
Customer quote: “I can so have this for
breokfasr! Look ifs neomhy."

Coor. SPRING
OR MARKEI

aoosouth Morn street. Lexington VA (540)463-6506
(Next to the Rockbrldge Farmers Coop)

p Our food tastes good because it is good.

in-Va at 

 ii... aria; s..;:a°ra  I a} ti.-rz ta 

‘are a r flit: I   

O3» Java at

i... %;...ai.s...« e....:s.§.t a...2.;,W_:r‘r’

Java at.

he jg
tlie CllO\;e
   CllQ\=*e

I

  

,,MoNoAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2002

SllliRll3l§PlilDlTORlAL

F . . . .
UI11VCfS1lIy SC€l(S immunity
from parental lawsuits

3 There are many reasons not to drink, and

Washington and Lee publicizes many of them.
Here’s one that isn’t mentioned, but may be
the root of many recent policies: if you get

.. drunk, and injured seriously, mortally, or su-

perficially, your relatives could sue the Uni-
versity. If you’re in a body cast, that might
be the last of your worries. Why should you

‘ care about the University’s fiscal condition,

particularly if the institution makes Mother
and Father a remunerative apology?

Sirriilarly, though, why should the Univer-
sity care about you? Don’t get us wrong. It
is in W&L’s interest to have as many physi-
cally fit, mentally alert, and morally strait stu-
dents as possible. The administration would
like nothing better than for every student to
have a great time here, live a productive life,
and grant a generous behest to his alma
mater. Present contentment makes for fu-
ture benefits, and the school is non incautus

futuri.

But when the interests of an individual
student and the institution conﬂict, it’s not dif-
ficult to see who’s going to take the fall. This
is exemplified in one of W&L’s proudest tra-
ditions, our honor system. Even if it could be
proven that a malefactor, catch stealing or
cheating, would reform, he would be dis-
missed. Even if he would benefit tremen-
dously from continued enrollment, he would
be dismissed. The good of the one cannot
outweigh our student body’s desire to have a
safe campus and an honorable academic
environment.

With this in mind, consider the campus
drinking situation. Why are drinking games,
hard liquor, and kegs being forbidden to fra-
ternities, which are university-owned prop-
erty? Is it because the liability there is far
greater than at country houses or private resi-
dences?

Few would accuse our adrriinistrators of
trading student safety for protection from li-
ability. Traveller is an example of a program
designed to reduce accidents and DUI’s.
However, it is equally clear that the adminis-
tration, since the Fraternity Renaissance, has
been systematically, slowly moving to ban all
alcohol from Greek houses.

The University is a powder keg stuffed
with potential lawsuits. Here live and work
1700 men and women from the riskiest de-
mographic group on the curve, the late teens
to early twenties. W&L, though heavily en-
dowed for its size, has only a fraction of the
coffers of Harvard, whose endowment is sec-
ond only to the American Catholic Church’s.
Considering the bad economy, what money
the University does have is being funneled
into building projects.

No administrator wants to see “The
Campaign for the Rising Generation” turn into
“The Campaign to Prevent W&L from De-
claring Chapter Thirteen.”

 
 

Editors in chief Katie J. Howell
MatthewB.McDermott
News Editor Andi'ewLatimer
Opinions Editor ImranNaeemullah
Arts & Life Editor Catherine C. Guy
Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin
Asst. Sports Editor Dave Crowell
Photo Editor Jeb Brooks
Photographers McQueen Calvert
Tallie Jamison
Business Manager Paul Seifert
Asst. Business Manager ThomasWorthy
Circulation Director HarryGrimball

THE

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editors in chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

. The Ring—tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
pm. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring—tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and oolumns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring—tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court defirii-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

THE Rm;-'i‘iiiiti Pm

PINIONS

.. - L... #54.

UEMONSEDHOR
FJ\/iAll;NAEHvlUllAlll@Wllil§l)U

liberals depe_n_dwon conservatives

A favorite refrain I hear many
liberals use to justify their latest
dream or mission is that all that needs
to happen is for people to accept and
adopt their proposal, and all will be
ﬁne. The underlying presumption is
that given x, adding y will not change
the value of x, but rather, make it a
more pure x. In other words, they pro-
pose the mathematically (and literally)
impossible, but use ﬂowery language
to disguise this obvious disconnect.
Unfortunately, all too often they suc-
ceed in this deception (even if they
themselves do not see it as such, lost
as they are in their blindness), and
society is slowly changing for the
worse, not the better.

Lest the above paragraph be
taken as a scathing indictment of lib-
eralism, it is not. Acertain liberalism is
necessary in any society to prevent it
from stagnating, in order to promote
the free ﬂow of new ideas. Webster’s
defines a liberal as “one who favors
greater freedom in political or religious
matters.” Yet, this deﬁnition is far from
the one that has been thrust forth
upon society in the past several de-
cades. This form, more extreme and
more provocative, hardly evokes the
moderation and level—headed progres-
sivism; instead, it describes the often
counter-productive ideas of pipe
dreamers.

To explain
my earlier matliemati—
cal analogy, look at it
this way. Society is a
rock formed by conservative values,
which favor abstaining from change
save for its betterment. Liberal ideas
which stray from this admittedly re-
strictive definition slowly erode from
the foundation which holds this rock

RIGHT-WING RESPONSE
lMlLll\l NiEEMULLagj)_5

-~.\.-.

C .

UTFERLY DEPENDENT. Although they desire to be seen as fearless champions of justice
and “progress,” liberals rely on conservativism to function as society’s foundation.

in place. While it has not yet hap-
pened, the point will eventually come
where the rock tumbles, and chaos
ensues.

Perhaps the
most significant
example of this was
the Vietnam War,
which when analyzed from a purely
“traditional” versus “liberal” perspec-
tive (ignoring the morality or lack
thereof of the war), created the big-
gest chasm in American society since
the Civil War. It divided Americans

into two general camps: those who
eschewed pre-political support for
America, and those whose support for
America was conditional upon the
morality of its policies. The latter
group has steadily increased in size,
and has reared its face most recently
in the renewal of the Iraq conﬂict, in
which the doves are harping about
United Nations involvement and the
necessity of obtaining the approval
of our so—ca1led European allies.

See LIBERALS, page 4

W&L men must ponder sacriﬁces

To all male students of Washington and Lee Univer-

ages of eighteen and thirty because we are in college.

sity: In response to the attacks on New York City and We would be the govemment’s last call in the draft. So
Washington D.C. last September, Congress, along with what about the other kids that are our age that are not so
President Bush, declared a “War on Terror-

ism” against an “Axis of Evil” which threat-

REALITY CHECK

ens all our lives. Now there is talk in our

Nation’s capitol of yet another war; a war

§_BLRliTT DAWS ‘06

against Iraq. Hopefully war will not have to
occur at all, but for the sake of discussion, let’s say it million other men (and yes, women, too) who have fought
and died in order to protect the liberties that we as citi-

does.
God be willing, this second

fortunate to be enrolled as a college
student? What happens to them
when their number comes up? Imag-
ine the feeling, getting a call that it
was your turn to enter the shoes of a

zens take for granted ev-

war against Iraq will very much
resemble the war we all saw on
CNN eleven years ago. However,
once again for the sake of con-
versation alone, let’s assume it’s
nothing like the battle we saw in
1991; an American offensive that
is supposed last a week results in
total failure. This failure opens the
eyes of millions because we all re-
alize that this war will last a year,
maybe ﬁve, or maybe even ten.
All of a sudden, this scenario
seems frighteningly similar to a
small policing action of the 1960’s.

Yes, the Vietnam conﬂict, a
“war” that ended the lives of hun-
dreds of thousands American
males. So, what does this have to
do with anything? Well, the last
time we saw the use of a draft was
the Vietnam War. But here lies the
real questions: What will happen
if this second invasion of Iraq
eventually calls for the use of the
draft? Who will go and who will

stay? And what would your reaction be to a draft?
We are the luckiest of all males in between the

“Jeff Lusk.”
—Mike Whitecar ‘O5

 

“Jay Smith.”
-Meredith Bailey ‘05

  
    

9

“Cara Cronin.’

—Aaron Metrailer ‘O5

 

“Mrs. Ed.”
-Dustin Albright ‘03

cw or lVW1t‘LG()()C1ECDM
THEY SACRIFICED. In the present conﬂict with Iraq, we
must keep in mind the sacriﬁces our forebears made

to ensure our freedom.

eryday of our lives. Emo-
tions such as pride, honor,
fear, and apprehension
would all flow through
your body as you got your
call.

As university stu-
dents, we have an awesome
amount of power with re-
gards to inﬂuencing public
policy. You want proof?
Take a look at the 1960’s;
had it not been for the
fierce political activism of
college students, the Viet-
nam conﬂict may have cost
our nation many more lives.

So next time you see
on the news or read in the
paper a story covering the
current tension between
the United States of
America and Iraq take a
minute to reﬂect on those
who died before you in or-
der to protect your way of

life, and think about how you can carry on this legacy by
protecting those who will come after you.

‘ ‘Max Adler.’ ’
—Neth Walker ‘04

Eﬁ.

C‘

esident Burish.”
-Arme Callison ‘05

PAGE 3

Homecoming is a
time for festivities
and alumni lessons

Students learn and uphold ﬁne W&L
traditions by speaking with recent alums

Nothing is a greater testament to the strength of
a Washington and Lee education than the success of
its alumni. With Homecoming weekend looming in the
near future, indeed

all eager __,¥__.._
undergrads anx- oRrEERNER’sEXi>osURE
iously await the KRISPOLLINA04

wealth of wisdom
accompanying their
advent, which some rriight even overzealously refer
to as “the second coming of Christ.”

It’s always unduly insightful to hear how recent
alums utilize or reject what they learned in college,
and how W&L measures up in the proverbial “real
world.” (On a side note, I think we’ve reached the
legal lirriit on articles arguing that W&L is not an ac-
curate reﬂection of the “real world,’’ an assertion that
is not only unoriginal, but painfully superﬂuous.)

Although hearing about how it sucks to wake up
to go to work- as opposed to waking up for an early
class— does not provide any real good knowledge, on
occasion, they do impart some timeless wisdom. With-
out further mindless introduction, nor conducting any
more word counts, here are the top 10 things I’ve
learned from recently graduated Washington and Lee
alumni: (I’ ve had little encounters with the older crowd,
so their scope of advice arguably might differ slightly
in both content and form.)

1.) If you hook up with a boy and it snows the
night before, his fraternity brothers will chase you off
the porch and throw snowballs at you.

2.) If you fall on the porch, everyone will laugh.

3.) There are two types of girls: those who stay
and those who scamper.

4.) No one goes out in Manhattan before 11PM.

5.) The freshman fifteen is counteracted by the
“l5’ year out of college 15 drop.” Apparently it results
from a Frosted Flakes and Ramen diet.

6.) Alumni still are in touch with W&L gossip
and receive popular forwards.

7.) They secretly miss getting campus notices,
if only to delete them immediately upon receiving them.

8.) It’s easier to get a job if you do things like
accounting and business stuff.

9.) Al u m s
forget how eco-
nomical East Lex
and the Palms
are. (Irish car
bombs cost $40 at
any other bar.)

10.) L A
Lights got
banned from the
NBA.

The first
three were gems
I absorbed last
Alumni Weekend
that still apply to
college life. It’s
such a nice thing
to do, for a grad

 

, to be all inforina—

" tive.
coUmsyoFWW.cooc.i£coM which is
CHEAPER HERE. Upon leaving W&L, why when they
everyonc’sfav01ittd1inkbec0tI1csp1ice)I all come this

weekend, we
should display acute appreciation for everything they
have to offer and listen carefully.

After all, one day we will be in the same position
to look at younger people and have free range to talk
about college with charming nostalgia. We should
take good notes. (Another useful tip that applies to
college life. I delight myself with such linguistic du-
alities.)

 

“My boyfrien .”
—Adrienne Norwood ‘O5

 

“Abram ‘DJ J onas’Trosky.”
-Cristin Nunez ‘O5

 

 

  

PAGE 4

 



Tolerance of homosexuality lacking at W&L

“You did WHAT?!” Suppose you
woke up one morning. You’re late for
class, you haven’t had breakfast, your
hair is a mess and you don’t really
have time for a shower. In the middle
of hopping on one foot to put your
socks on you realize you
never actually finished
that big paper that’s due
(when else?) today. Oh,
yes. Typical college day.
Typical, except for one thing: you’re
gay. At Washington and Lee, that’s
anything but ordinary.

I’m a freshman. I’m also an inter-
national student. Both these things
together add up to a very limited
amount of knowledge about Ameri-
can college culture. I came here with
the ‘land of the free’ ringing in my
head, which meant expectations about
openness and liberal mindedness. In
some respects, I was dead—on right.
In others, I could not have been more
wrong. One of my major mistakes was
thinking that most American college
students are tolerant and open when
it comes to homosexuality. Sadly, as
most of you probably know, that’s
deﬁnitely not the case at W&L.

My first inkling of this came
when I decided to join the Gay—Straight
Alliance. I’d always been interested
in this kind of organization, but I’d
never had the chance to join because

my school never had one (it was re-
ally very small). I eagerly signed up
and was mildly surprised to see I was
the only freshman on the list. I de-
cided I’d single-handedly correct that
and proceeded to state the innumer-

able reasons

TroNAL’S INSIGHTS Why We
should all
LIGIA ABREU ‘06 Join the GSA

to anyone
who would listen. Strange looks (a
mixture of disgustand fear), doors-
shut-in—my—face and exclarnations of
“You did what?! Are you gay?!” were
some of the most encouraging reac-
tions I got.

Last Wednesday, Sept. 25”‘, I at-
tended my first meeting of the GSA. I
had a chance to actually talk about
some of these issues with people as
willing and eager to discuss them as I
was. I was pleased, if a bit surprised,
to see members of the faculty (includ-
ing the GSA’s faculty advisor Prof.
Julie Woodzicka) and administration
present. All in all, there were about
thirty people there, which was a ‘good
tum—out’ in a 2,000-plus people cam-
pus. After a little chatting and a lot of
pizza, the formal part of the meeting
began. The three co—chairs (Rian
Lewis, Herman Hoying and Kelly Jo
Larsen) made one thing clear: the GSA
is here to stay, and we’re going to let

people know. I ﬁnally worked up the
nerve to ask the question that had
been nagging at me for a while: how
many students are openly gay on carn-
pus? Answer: Zero. Zero undergradu-
ate students are openly gay. Zero. In
my opinion, that number says a lot
more about how tolerant and open-
minded the majority of our students
are than about how many homosexual
students actually attend Washington
and Lee.

On a more positive note, the cam-
pus has actually become noticeably
more open during the past few years.
Dean Howison (who attended the
meeting and absolutely blew me away
with his willingness to fully support
the GSA) mentioned that a few years
ago, a meeting like the one held last
week wouldn’t even have been pos-
sible. Clear (not to mention encour-
aging) evidence that our school is
actually becoming progressively open
to homosexuality: an openly gay stu-
dent, Jeff Cook, was elected President
of the Executive Committee just a few
years ago. I’m deﬁnitely ecstatic about
that fact, but then again, how many
gay students are in the EC now?

Frankly, I don’t know what the
problem is. You’re gay or you’re
straight; you’re human. You deserve
to be taken seriously and to be ac-
cepted as you are, no questions

asked, because you’re an individual
with something valuable to give: you
are unique. I understand fear, I under-
stand ignorance and intolerance, but
I don’t understand it in a community
of people as highly educated and in-
telligent as ours. I’m sure that most
students are hesitant to join the GSA
on the grounds that they might be
considered gay themselves; so what?
It’s no one’s business whether you
are gay, straight, bisexual, or lesbian.
What is everyone’s business, right
and responsibility is to foster a toler-
ant, open and welcoming environment
to individual diversity, be it racial, eth-
nic, religious or sexual.

It’s about time ‘gay’ stopped be-
ing a derogatory term for everything
that’s lame or stupid, or a hush—hush
whisper about so-and-so’s activities
last weekend. It’s about time being gay
on this campus stopped being a car-
dinal sin and became ordinary. This is
not a black and white world. Open
your eyes and celebrate the differ-
ences. And, if you feel like it, drop by
the next GSA meeting and let us know.

N ote: It’s the Gay—Straight Alli-
ance. You don’t have to be gay to
join. Anyone who’s willing to pro-
mote a tolerant environment for ho-
mosexual and bisexual students, fac-
ulty and administration is welcome
to sign up.

LIBERALISM: denies reality and depends on status quo

RELIGION, from page 3

The question is, How does this ap-
ply to our lives? There are two realms
which are relevant to us: one is life at
Washington and Lee, and the other is
our lives as ordinary Americans. As a
group, W&L students tend to be con-
servative—minded, if not necessarily in
their social conventions (ie., this is not a
socially conservative school in the sense
that Bob Jones University is), then cer-
tainly in their approach to tradition and
the status quo. Those who have read
my columns over the past year realize I
am something of a traditionalist when it
comes to W&L affairs, and I am gener-
ally opposed to frivolous changes and
antagonistic activist groups, because I
see them as detracting from the quality
of life which makes W&L such a unique
institution of higher learning.

Unfortunately, on certain issues,
such as the one of “diversity,” the trend
is to increasingly marginalize and dis-
criminate against conservative thought,
and to shift the spectrum of debate so
that the deﬁnition “nomral” is somewhere
around “moderately liberal” and that
mainstream conservative thought be-
comes extremist, to say nothing of ultra-
ri t—wing views (which I will admit are
sometimes draconic and out of line).
This, of course, merely reﬂects what is

 

the increasing norm in'American media,
but is alarming at a traditionally rational
institution like Washington and Lee.
The view taken by certain campus
groups which advocate radical change
is that if their solutions are adopted as
policy, then all will be the same save for
the happier new existence. In other
words, they believe that Washington and
Lee will remain the same charming and
impressive institution it is even if their
changes are implemented. Sometimes,
they are right; however, many of the
changes proposed at W&L of late (and
which will surely be increasingly popu-
lar in the years to come), will eventually
cause the rock that is W&L’s founda-
tion to shift. We can take our cherished
traditions for granted because W&L has
changed relatively little all things con-
sidered (coeducation, for allof its irn—
pact, merely added a gender and has
not dramatically affected the student
body’s political demographic), but if radi-
cal changes become the norm, then it
will be difﬁcult to maintain these tradi-
tions when increasingly large propor-
tions of W&L students are unfamiliar
with them and unwilling to leam them.
We must be on guard to ensure that the
changes necessary to keep W&L com-
petitive and to mold students who are
prepared for the “real world” are merely

what is necessary, and not what is fool-
ish.

The same view applies to society
as a whole. Much as America is like
Washington and Lee in that it is great
and its principles and traditions are un-
rivaled, there is only so much change
that can happen before its rock of sup-
port begins to shift. Changes that lib-
eral groups constantly and increasingly
advocate in society will eventually
cause our moral fabric to crumble. Pres-
ently, the cautionary tales of some con-
servatives to the contrary, America is
an overwhelmingly moral country. We
are generally an honest, hard—working,
and decent people; yet, we must remem-
ber that we adhere to these values be-
cause they have been passed down to
us from our ancestors. If we fail to en-
sure that the present young generation
(that means us, folks) understands and
strives to fulﬁll the ideals which make
this country great, then we will be liv-
ing on borrowed capital.

The Europeans are a prime example
of this: having suffered the tragedy of
two terrible wars on their continent in
the space of only a few decades, their
societies were so severely tested that
their traditional moral fabric crumbled
and gave way to a new, post—modem
order. While this is not to say that Euro-

pean society does not still retain many
traditional aspects (particularly in the
countryside), the cities increasingly re-
ﬂect a new Europe that is frighteningly
undemocratic and places far too much
trust in remote central governments
with immensely bureaucratic methods
of governance.

As Rod Dreher recently wrote in
National Review, the Dutch are a people
who are dependent on the moral splen-
dor of their glorious past to provide sus-
tenance for the future. Fortunately, tra-
ditional Europeans (who remember all
too well the decidedly authoritarian and
freedom—hating governments of their
past) are increasingly organizing and
protesting against the eerily similar ideas
of many of their governments. The dan-
ger lies in the pendulurn’s swinging too
far to the right, and eliminating the de-
gree of liberalism necessary to prevent
society’s stagnation; this is why liber-
als must regulate themselves, in order
to prevent a chaotic breakdown in the
social order that can only result in some
form of bad government. Liberalism is
no bad thing; it is simply an ideal its
adherents must realize comes with an
adaptation George Santayar1a’s famous
disclaimer: those who are unaware of
and do not honor the heritage of their
ideals are condemned to destroy them.

 

6,5 FUN CARDS - APRiL CORNELL CLOTHING - PURSES

 

~ 121 W. Nelson Street
Lexington, VA 24450

540.464.5002
www.shoppumpIcinseeds.com

lg) ECLECTtC .¥EWELRY - CANDLES - GIFTS GALORE - FRAMES

9&3 SLVH 0 SdVOS 0 SC)il.E‘-IWSOO WOO18 - )6.-lVEl 80:! SGNH enema C3’

MITTENS 0 STATIONERY 0 HOME ACCENTS

V
1

SELL SPRING BREAK TRIPS
ALL THE FUN & ALL THE PROTECTIONS
AMERICAN EXPRESS WORLDWIDE
GUARANTEED BEST BUY
IFREETRIPFOR EVERY 10 PAID
OR CA$H STARTING WITH FIRST BOOKING
YOU SELL — WE COLLECT PAYMENTS
WORLD CLASS VACATIONS
1-800-222-4432

Alain--Beatriz

Spring Break 2003 with STS
America’s #1 Student Tour
Operator
Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free
Information/Reservations
1-800-648-4849 or
www.ststravel.com

Well, it’s election time in Wash-
ington again and things could not be
much worse. I was watching Fox News
Charmel last night and they had a
couple of talking heads on arguing
about whether or not Republicans and
Democrats should be politicizing the
war. Neither really seemed to have a
problem with it, but one was blaming
the Republicans for whining about
things and an-
other was blam-
ing the Demo-
crats for whining
about things. Is
this really what is so important?

I have to say with my sister
being a Navy Ensign who could be
shipped across the planet at any time,
I really hope discussions on the possi-
bility of war are about a little more than
constituents’ votes.

But what’s curious is how
little the American public already
knows. This past week when British

LEFT or CENTER
NICHOIAS RAMSEY ‘O3 babe is being blbudbd by

 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2002 -

Lack of Iraq data dismaying

tack any country. . .. ever.

And what is the rush? Iraq is
not going anywhere. In 1990 the Sen-
ate took ﬁve months after Iraq invaded
Kuwait before launching the Gulf War.
That was then and now Iraq is not even
harming anyone else at the moment. If
the American and British govemment
wants to send our soldiers into a coun-
try to start a war, I would like to at least
no for sure what they
have.

Moreover, the de-

members of both parties
over politics. Our Republican President
is trying to sell the war against Iraq
during election time to draw attention
away from two things: the lack of suc-
cess against the war in Afghanistan
and the wavering economy. When is
the last time you heard the White
House mention our soldiers still ﬁght-
ing al Qaeda? Secondly, did you no-
tice as well that the Dow fell by nearly

3!!

Prime Minister, Tony Blair, armounced three hundred points on Friday?

that Iraq has M e a n —
weapons of mass while, Tom
destruction and Daschle is
soon will have pissing and
nuclear war— moaning over
heads, he offered the ridiculous
no new evidence. statement Bush
When the press made early last i
asked the Presi— week. Bush ac-
dent how Blair cused Senate
knewthesethings, Democrats of
he stated that not caring about
their sources  American’s secu-
would need to be ammo, WGOOQECOM rity. Whilethis is
protected. Thus, 'I‘Hra(:RYnABY.SenDasclrlcmrusuallydrrew merely playing
just like Bush Sr. 21 feigned hissy ﬁt on the Senate ﬂoor. politics, it is truly
the public is al- a stupid, stupid

ready having the blinders put on them
during this “time of war.” It is quite remi-
niscent to the Persian Gulf when re-
porters were only allowed to know what
the Pentagon and the White House
gave their stamp of approval.

But what is the big deal here?
Well, human lives to be truthful. If the
United States launches an attack on
Iraq, American men and women will be
sent across the world to begin the ﬁrst
preemptive attack in the entire 213—year
history of this country. No American
President has ever been the ﬁrst to at-

accusation. Meanwhile, Daschle is ask-
ing for an apology.

As for someone speaking his
mind, that wouldbeAl Gore. Like what
he has to say or not, the man is actually
giving a real opinion backed by a real
argument. More politics comes into
play as Republicans run to the, “you’re
against the President, you’re un-Ameri-
can! ! !” defense. I-low original.

Instead of all this, Washing-
ton should sit down, look at the issue
and give the public the resources to
appreciate an informed decision.

 

WE CAN DO IT!

Repairs ~ Contacts

COOL FRAMES!
HOT LENSES!
SHADES!

THE NEW @W’il@li£lE£|§

20 years serving Rockbridge
at 203 N. Main Street, Lexington
463-7440

102 W. Washington St.
463-5383

WELCOME ALUMN

Blue Blazers

Woolrich
Duckhead

Lacoste Shirts

Red Wing Boots
Tuxedo Rentals & Sales
W&L Belts, Ties, Sandals, Dog Collars

Homecoming Special
Suits & Sportscoats
20% Off

Open Sunday, October 6th at 9:00 a.m.

Since 1963
Master Card

Student Charge

 

 

i 4 CAlllFl{lNEC.GLT

)lWi":l.ii. R.ll‘si(_i*"iii:iKi i}? Aju3&L1FEEDm)R

RT :[Fl 3 EMiH_‘(;UYC@\l0IL‘.El)E

Pil‘GE 5 ’ __J MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2002

Bands 1‘0      mug 1-Bxingt

BY SHARYN REGAN
STAFF WRITER

A plethora of bands came to nu-
mbrous frat houses at Washington
and Lee last weekend, providing
good, clean fun for students every-
where.

I Five—man student band Geor-
gia Avenue kicked off the week-
end with a show at Phi Psi on Fri-
day night. The crowd was rela-
tively small due to the early show
time, but listeners seemed to en-

. joy mildly what they heard. It

served as background music to

the chit-chat that took place in _ 

c'i>wds clustered around comfort-
able couches. The band has been
traveling the East coast and Mid-
west playing over one hundred
shows a year to audiences at col-
leges and clubs. They have a
funky sound, and they performed
their own music for a while until
someone requested they play a
fntw covers. Georgia Avenue was
not loud or terribly energetic, but
instead, according to the biogra-
phy on their website “combine[d]
the earnest soundscapes of
Csoldplay and Travis with the
songwriting brilliance of the
Counting Crows, Wilco, Train and
Five for Fighting.”

in J innnie’s Chicken Shack, a band
based out of Annapolis, MD, one of
the more famous bands to perform
on our campus, played Friday in the
basement at PiKA and drew an ex-
ceptionally rowdy crowd. In fact, a
male in a pale yellow collared shirt
started a mosh pit, thereby forcing
all girls to the back of the room and
moving that the music was quite ap-
preciated. The highlight of the con-
cert came when Jimmie’s Chicken
Shack played their famed single “Do
Right” and popped in cuts from
iSﬁ1blime’s “Smoke Two Joints.”
Many W&L students were given the
opportunity to visit with the band af-
ter the show, including Freshman
Erin Wascom, who said of the band,
‘”'l'hey..were really nice andlchill. I
love their song -“High” and how they
mixed Sublime into their line-up. The
rapper featured added a kick. They
are just a great live band.”

On Saturday afternoon, Chi Psi
whipped out the beer and the slip-
n-slide and had a Hootie and the
Blowf1sh—like band from North Caro-
lina called Weekend Excursion play.
The band set up stage on the front

lawn of the frat house and ‘ j ammed’_ ,

in the most mellow sense of the
word. Their sty1e..I;e.nded toward a
melodic, hook—laden rock. Viewers
lounged on carpets and couches

   

Clockwise from top left:
Graham Colton

(wwwgraharncoltorrcom),
]immie’s Chicken Shack

(wwwgarbageofedencorn),

Georgia

Avenue

(wwwgeorgiaavenuecorn),
Weekend Excursion

while the group played a few famil-
iar covers, such as “Johnny. Be
Good,” and their own more obscure
songs. The songs featured impres-
sive guitar solos and a tambourine
(always a crowd—pleaser).

, Snackbar Jones, a well—known
favorite among drunken W&L stu-
dents, performed last Saturday
evening at Phi Psi. Aband from Vir-
ginia Beach, Snackbar Jones has

been playing together since 1996.
Snackbar consists of four musicians
and a female lead singer. Popular on
college campuses along the east
coast, Snackbar Jones specializes in
hip—hop, 70’s, 80’s, alternative and
modern rock. Their ability to mimic
the bands they cover is uncanny,
thereby sending young listeners
into a frenzy of dancing and practi-
cally forcing them to sing along. All

in all, the partygoers that attended
Snackbar Jones’ show reacted posi-
tively. “I’d love to see them again,”
said Freshman Ashley Warren.
The ladies loved Graham
Colton, who performed at Kappa
Sig on Saturday night. The singer
from Oklahoma City and his band
played a few cover‘ songs along
with some of their own, which, ac-
cording to sophomore and

      W&L hﬂife

hardcore fan Christina Kolock, fea-
ture “amazing lyrics.” Graham
Colton played side shows for The
Dave Matthews Band all summer
and will be going on tour with the
Counting Crows in a few weeks.
Kolock raved, “I think he is amaz-
ingly-talented and incredibly down
to earth. I can’t believe W&L got
him to play here considering his
recent successes.”

American learns lesson in haggling

Capitalism is alive and flourishing in modern China, as student sees firsthand

Luckily for the Chinese, Deng Xiao Ping implemented
“Qpening reforms” in the mid—1980’s. Gone were the com-
munes and white elephant state—owned-enterprises, here
to stay are Schlotzky’s Deli and lkea. N o more green and
brown Mao suits, but designer clothing from CrocoPolo
(a cross between Ralph Lauren and Lacoste) and Play-
lﬁoy (or at least a shockingly similar bunny).

China’s success could truly be called a rniracle— it
was recently reported that China is now a more attrac-
tive market for foreign investment than the United States.

eijing’s streets are choked with Volkswagons, Audis
and Buicks while the skyline is punctuated by construc-
tion cranes sprouting in every direction.

Like Britain during the Industrial Revo- , T
lution or America’s Reconstruction period, 
(Ehina’s economy is now growing incredibly
fast and somewhat chaotically, because the
government has not yet implemented the regulatory con-
trol present in more mature economies. Every street—side
git seller and journeyman construction worker, every

‘ancier and industrialist is looking to make his fortune
today- and he just may. There are a few things, though,
that still need to be ironed out.

. Unemployment is an immense problem. It’s tough to
‘ﬁnd jobs for nearly a billion workers,
so every store, no matter what size, is
crawling with service personnel. At
least one is posted in every aisle and

a every display case. None of them
are particularly focused on service,
however; the job seems to involve a
lot of standing around and gawking
at foreigners.

! Construction is done almost en-
tirely by hand, by workers, usually
migrants from the countryside, who
live on site. Unlike here, excavation

oesn’t involve backhoes and steam
shovels, but pickaxes and jack ham-
mers (most of which seem to have
congregated outside my window).
Laying concrete doesn’t call for a
tlruck, but an endless line of two-
wheeled pull-carts.

The most obvious place where a visitor will re-
ally notice that the many Chinese are scrambling
for jobs, though, is at any tourist site, no matter
how insignificant. Every one, from the Great Wall
to the smallest art museum is jammed with a mob of
vendors.

My experience at the Great Wall is instructive. We
ttaveled three hours northeast of Beijing to an isolated
section of the wall, nonetheless, dutifully stationed near

 
 

LIVE FROM CHIN.-\
BRETT KlR\‘t:N:0_4l

THE I<EY 'l‘(') EI~'I«'E(:’II\'Ir.
B.»\R(;AININ<; Is 'I'() I)Ir.<:I1)r«;
\X/HAT YOU THINK Is _»\ I«'.\IR
r>RI(:E AND NFNER G() <)\'I«:R, N()
MA’I'I‘F.R WHAT H.~\PPl<‘.NS. IT
TURNS our TH;\'l‘ I’M w.\Y T()()
NICE. I’M :\ (I()i\IP].ETF. S()l*TIl£
AND A ’r<)'I2»\I. PUSHO\’l£R. P.T.
B.~\RNU.\I S.\ll) ’I'HERE’s .\
SUCKER BORN EVERY .\IINUI‘E;
I’M AT LEAST TEN .\IINL"I'I<«;s’
W()RTl~l.

the path to the wall was a platoon of vendors, like so
many leeches. They had been lounging, but as we passed,
they jumped up at the sight of thirty Americans. They
each picked a student to follow around, like snipers pick-
ing their marks. From then on, we each had a shadow, a
vendor hawking books, postcards, and “I Climbed the
Great Wall” T—shirts.

In fact, I wanted to buy each of these items, and
did, but being assaulted while attempting to enjoy the
grandeur of the Great Wall was terribly annoying. More
annoying, though, is the fact that I am a totally inept
bargainer. (Mom and Dad: Send more money!) Although
a refined art in China, the average
American is completely unprepared
to haggle, wheedle, prevaricate, plead
and beg just to buy a T-shirt.

I gave it the old college try,
though. She said 100, I said 30. She said 90, I said 35.
She said 90, I said 40. We went back and forth, but
then, she broke out the heaviest artillery— she
started to cry. “I’m just a poor farmer,” she whim-
pered, “There is a drought and I have no job.” No
job but ﬂeecing poor exchange students, that is. This
is when I lose, every time.

The key to effective bar-
gaining is to decide what you
think is a fair price and never go
over, no matter what happens.
It turns out that I’m way too
nice. I’m a complete softie and
a total pushover. P.T. Barnum
said there’s a sucker born every
minute; I’1n at least ten minutes’
worth. So, the vendor cried, and
we agreed on 70 RMB, about
nine dollars, for a book and some
postcards. One of my classmates
got the same book for 40 RMB.
At the base of the mountain,
similar books sold for 20 RMB.

Last weekend, I went to a small
art museum displaying the works of
a Communist-sympathizing painter.
There were three Americans and two Chinese visitors.
At least a half-dozen vendors clamored outside. They
outnumbered the tourists! They can’t be escaped and
all seem to know that I’m an easy mark.

In modern China, so long as one doesn’t criticize
the government too publicly or pass out Bibles, people
are more or less free to chase after the next renminbi.
It will be very interesting to see whether all this eco-
nomic freedom ever translates into freedom of a more
important variety.

Students make Colonnade Club goal, not tradition

    

BY TIM SMITH
ST.-\I<'I" \l'Rl’l‘F.R

This is my first printed article
since my glory days when I co-
wrote a piece in the Back Page
with former roomie, Michael
Denbow. I don’t claim to be the
orator that he is, but I’ve been
known to spout some fortune
cookie wisdom in my day, and
hopefully you will see that here.
So without further adieu:

Our beloved school is rich in
history and rife with traditions that,
unfortunately, may be seeing their
dying days. We’ve already suffered
the tragic departure of tailgating,
that magical experience that defined
halftime as a game break for players
and chance for spectators to pass
out from nine gin & tonics. And beer
pong, that fabled contest that de-
fined the nature of competitive
drinking, has faded from the base-
ments and dining rooms of our fra-
ternity mansions. Certainly, life in
Greek Central feels a little emptier
now that these frat rituals have
faded into memory.

But fear not, frat lords and so-
rority lasses. They might have taken
our ping pong balls and our Satur-
day morning Beam & Cokes, but a
few traditions have held on, to re-
mind us what life is all about. Ever
constant, those crazy Cadavers con-
tinue to paint that wretched un-
sightly face all over the campus. In
addition, a few adventurous souls
occasionally dare to explore W & L’s
catacombs, maintaining the legend-

ary tradition of tunneling. These
traditions are all sacred in their own
right, but there is one tradition,
above all others, that represents the
pinnacle of Greek life - indeed, it may
be the highest achievement for all
fraternity and sorority members. Of
course, I’m talking about the en-
trance into the fabled Colonnade
Club.

Acertain sophomore guy, when
asked about the Colonnade Club, re-
plied “Isn’t that a sandwich?” A
tragically wrong answer. Perhaps he
was uninformed, or perhaps he was
just hungry, but his response re-
veals a disturbing campus-wide ig-
norance of what the celebrated so-
ciety is all about. Simply put,.the
Colonnade Club is a collection of
students who have pulled off the
most stunning ambitious feat our
campus offers - they have, by the
grace of God and Robert E. Lee, suc-
cessfully “hooked—up” in each of
the five buildings in the Colonnade.
That’s right - they have whimpered
in Washington, been touched in
Tucker, felt passion in Payne, been
naked in Newcomb, and railed in
Robinson.

Beyond question, there are
doubters out there who ridicule
such suggestions, claiming that no
man or woman could pull off such a
tremendous accomplishment. But
rest assured, they are out there, eat-
ing at the Co-op, studying in
Leyburn, and sitting next to you in
history class (smiling, since you are
sitting in the desk they fooled
around on). They know who they

I UFO H.IUr\ B) A NDREW All. [ER fig
are, and they bask silently in the
glory that only they share. They
have lived their college lives to the
fullest, and to them, W & L means
just a little bit more.

But before you rush off to join
them and share the ultimate fulfill-
ment of Greek life, remember: this is
Washington and Lee, and the Honor
Code does apply. Be discrete and
be respectful. While you and your
partner in glory are “working it,”
other students are actually working,
and these diligent individuals al-
ways have the right—of—way. Fur-
thermore, security guard Rexrode
(though he is definitely da man) and
the other guards don’t get paid
enough to suffer the trauma of see-
ing students “bumping nasties” on
their shifts. And please please don’t
try breaking into Washington Hall
at night - such a violation would
negate any progress towards enter-
ing the Club (anyway, the locked
doors add the challenge of hooking
up during the day). Also, I should
say that President Burish’s office is
Off-Limits - give the guy a break, he
just got here. Finally, and this
should go without saying, I quote
the words of my father: “Don’t make
any babies.” So remember to visit
the Student Health Center before
you embark on your quest to
achieve the unimaginable and to fi-
nally discover what college was cre-
ated for.

Good luck with your efforts, and
if you want any free strategies for
your mission, feel free to call #463-
1160.

 

PAGE 6

  

BY ANDREW LATIMER
NEWS EDITOR

If jazz has a deﬁnite fault, it is that the entire genre
tends to take itself too seriously. As a novice listener, I
could not help but stare dumbfounded at articles or liner
notes by pretentious reviewers who peppered their text
with name after name, each one more obscure than the
last.

Any attempt I made at appreciating an artist or album,
somehow, some way I would end up discouraged because
I did not already pay proper homage with a collection of at
least 500 rare records and my required transcendental ex-
perience listening to Thelonius Monk in a hazy Parisian
cafe.

Perhaps this stems from its reputation as
“America’s music,” or the fact that its history is so
enmeshed with the struggle for civil rights due to its
distinctly African-American roots. The field is so ex-
clusive that I felt like a square like me simply could not
have any part of it.

What did I expect going into Saturday night’s
Sonoklect modern music performance by the Glenn
Ferris Trio? Expert musicianship and some profes-
sional solos, to be sure. But being an outsider, I
did not anticipate much of a connection with one
self—indulgent, gymnastic musical passage after an-
other.

So out strides this Zappa-esque trombone player, a
double-bassist and a cellist. Yes, a cellist. And no, there
were no drums, no piano, no guitarist or saxophone in
sight. One question: where did the jazz band go? Now I
just wanted to see if this trio could even get off the
ground.

What Ferris, bassist Bruno Rousselet and cel-
list Vincent Segal unleashed in the next hour was

  ARTS as; L
Glenn Fes blows audiene a

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 20062

1 W
-E

cI)IIRiE.wGLE~IvFEIzRIsTRIo(iIn<(IIINmE(il)co\I=R
nothing short of astounding. The interplay be-
tween the two string players, the sheer imagina-
tion of it, prevented Ferris from completely steal-
ing the show.

But when the eccentric Ferris exercised his instru-
ment like some extension of his body, I could not help but
pay attention. Writhing and bending almost parallel to the
ground, in some passages he barely whispered into the
mouthpiece, only to follow that a minute later by wielded
his trombone like a demented shoulder-mounted aural
bazooka.

Selections like “The Life,” “Boy Boy” and “Blues
Forever Blues” stood out from the pack, yet there was
rarely a moment I felt like the trio was experimenting at the
expense of the audience. The hour was a straight, taut set
that came from a group that had a most remarkable chem-
istiy.

The second half of the show was reserved for
the second trio of the night, which Glenn Ferris
dubbed “Chrominance” and featured Ferris, Rousselet
and drummer Jeff Boudreaux. Their set was easily up
to par with the first, yet lacked the former’s sheer
audacity. With their soulful yet playful style, both
trios invited me to appreciate all the ability and ver-
satility that is jazz at the hands of four engrossing
performers.

Segal and Rousslet both hail from France,
and indeed Sonoklect director and professor
Terry Vosbein discovered Ferris and company in
Paris. It stunned me to find out that it was their
first performance in the United States, not to
mention that their CD’s are impossible to find
stateside. Everyone who experienced the Glenn
Ferris Trios owes Vosbein a hefty debt of grati-
tude, and those who missed out should be kick-
ing themselves.

Investment society bankrupts coffers, morals

BY BRYAN EARLY
STAFF WRITER

LEXINGTON (Rooters) - With
the stock market’s steady decline
over the past 18 months, the possi-
bility of war with Iraq, and continued
uncertainty of whether President
Bush can formulate an economic pack-
age that does not involve the words
“tax cuts,” the Williams Investment
Society was forced to hold an emer-
gency meeting of its Executive Board
September 16 to reappraise its ﬁscal
solvency.

The Executive Board met at 7
AM for a planned 7-hour session to
assess the current value of its securi-
ties, reevaluate its investment strat-
egy, and brainstorm new capital—rais-
ing techniques. When the Board sum-
moned its Chief Financial Ofﬁcer to
review its balance sheet of invest-
ments, it was shocked to ﬁnd that it
was left with only $11.59 in assets.
As malnourished Board Member Der-
iick Wheellee dourly noted, “It wasn’t
even enough to cover pizza for lunch.”

“According to our ﬁnancial state-
ments from one year ago, even tak-
ing iiito account stock market turmoil,
we should still have millions left,”
stated the CEO Wendell Williams
LXVH, citing the Williams Investment
Society’s painstakingly documented
ﬁnancial statements that had been
signed off on by Arthur Anderson.

“It’s‘not like we had acted irre-
sponsibly by investing in risky tech
stocks. We meticulously researched
our investments and only had secu-
rities in reliable securities such as
Enron, United Airlines, Tyko,
Adelphia, and sports bets on the Chi-
cago Cubs. 1 mean, honestly, who
could have predicted that Cubs would
totally cop out? This really was sup-
posed to be their year,” Williams
stated in a press release.

The Board decided that it needed
to take drastic steps to recover
enough assets to effectively return
to squandeiing them again.

After a 3-hour brainstorming
session, the William’s Investment So-
ciety formulated a daring new capital
reacquisition program based upon

Write for the Phi!

0nyat:’_

    Mats and WomerfsiSport$W§ar,tI.,,.      

    Outerwear, and  

 

NowAvailablel in Lexi,

Fraternitiesﬂsororities
clubs 0 student ttrnulls

Earn $1 ,000-$2,000 this semester with a proven CampusFundraiser
3 hour fundraising event. Our programs make fundraising easy
with norisks. Fundraising datesiare ﬁlling quickly, so get with
the program! It works. Contact CampusFundraiser at (888) 923-
3238, or visit www.campusfundraiser.com



W&L STUDENTS
Look YOUR BEST Fan HoMEcoMme!

Come by and see Skip, Marla, Connie and Wilson.

SKIP THOMPSON’S

little—known passage in the Lexing-
ton City Charter back to the Civil
War that allowed “Generals of the
Southern persuasion” to seize what-
ever resources necessary from the
citizenry in the “contest against
Northern ag-
gression.”

T h u s ,
WIS began its
“From a De-
clining Gen-
eration” Capi-
tal Drive to
mug, shake-
d o w n ,
swindle, and
scam every se-
nior citizen in
the greater Lexington area. The plan
utilizes a combination of Account-
ing majors armed with clubs and
Management majors armed with pil-
lowcases full of doorknobs to “en-
courage” local residents make “do—
nations” into the WIS’s coffers.

Williams announced that WIS
was proud to be following in hun-
dreds of years of proud tradition,
“Televangelists, PBS, the Alumni
Association, and the Collectible
Plate Division of the Franklin Mint

THE LAST WORD:
A MORI-i HUMOROUS,
1«IrrrIoNAI . SIDE
or THE RING—TUM PH1’s
ARTS & LIFE SECTION

have known for years that the elderly
are an excellent source of money. Th€

best part is, 90% of the time they don’t

miss or even remember that it’s gone.”

While the WIS’s plan has met
with some opposition from member;
of the EC who
have questioned
the honorability
of racketeering
and armed rob!
beries, the Will-
iams Investment
Society has de-
fended its cut’
throat capitalism
by saying that
nowhere in the
Honor Code does
it mention “pillowcase full of door.
knob” violations.

As CEO Williams explained to a
group of Washington & Lee Trust-
ees whom he was holding up at th
time, “We needed a quick ﬁx to our
ﬁnancial problems and after careful
consideration we decided that this
plan would be the most satisfactory
course to the greater Washington
and Lee community, with exception
to the History Department. Now give
me your wallets.”

.I..F..\'l;\I(}T().

BARBER SHOP

Reel Time Fly Fishing &,0utfitt¢;_v’   f’   
23WestWashington Stiff    .’  
ILexiI1§Ion.VA 24450  .. -  ’ 1  "

I     462-6100"!-E    
www;reeltimeflyfisliingxom 

.-If/r?(Jt?.IIi'1"a"‘y (.'u.uri;J5:z'I3_4y-

 

22 S. Main Street 0 Lexington, VA
Open Mon., Tues., Thurs., & Fri. 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
Sat. 8 a.m. - noon; Closed Wed. & Sun.
540-463-5954

ESPRESSO - CAPPUQCINO ‘ EAGELS * MUFFINS - CROFSSANTS
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET ' LEXINIRTON ' 464-6586

     

NELSON FINE AI-11:»
GALLERY

27 W. Washington Street
Leadngton, Vlrglnla
540-463-9827
www.ne|sonfineartsgaIIery.oom

UPS-US MAIL-OVERNIGHT & INTERNATIONAL DELIVERY -

We will package and/or send your items! We can make it easy to ,I
get your things to and from school!

Pack and Mail  

ailing Center

3

0penDdIy1l a.m. -5p.m.
orbyappohtrnent
ClosodWednudays&Si.ndoys
r——T————-?——I

An artists’ cooperative
tounded in 1999.

Original works of painting and sculpture

 

R t:;‘:Sii‘:t:nt  We offer a PICK UP SERVICE to help you ship items home.

. ’ ’ CALL FOR MORE INFORMATION

WILLIAM E BYEBS Next to Subway on Nelson Street '

Hard—\X/orkjng, Friendly,
Strong Work Ethics. Apply at

The Victorian Parlour, BARBARACRAWFORD . , p
23 South Main St., DO:?)l'3I'$YB(aIgFK%I':ELL Package _Rece1vmg 4 _77 Package Storage
Lexington Jgiﬁmlﬁfgff Fax Services Supplies
KIIMH VAN SICKLE

540-464-8888 LEE SAUDER 5*

 

    
 

JiLlfﬁ\L‘.‘\Il kl/\. II\l\l.h\
SI>oI<IsEDIIoR’

Emu; FRil\llx’lll\ll@\X/lLl.FDL‘

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2002

  Tunoves, field

BARREIT DAWS/ THE RLNGTLMPHI

REVERSAL OF FORTUNE. junior Jon Brimer (17) runs a wide receiver reverse in
(fént.re’s 19-13 win over W&L on Saturday. Brimer had one catch for 28 yards.

BY BARRETT DAWS
SPORTS WRITER

Q4, DANVILLE, Ky. — The Wash-
ington and Lee football team left Lex-

Centre College. The two football
teams have now faced each other for
48 consecutive years.

The Generals were very optimis-
tic about winning the game; in the last

bIii0“Iif§

 
   

goals cause 19-13 Generls oss

Field, the Generals were looking for
some payback.

The scouting report looked prom-
ising, for Centre had lost most of its
top starters. However, the Colonels
outplayed W&L 19-13 in yet another
game that went down to the last play.

Unfortunately for the Generals, the
team had trouble building any sort of
momentum in the first half. Centre led
the game at the half by a score of 10-0.

During the second half, the Gen-
erals rallied and cut Centre’s lead to
10-7 thanks to a great interception by
junior defensive back Ted Mafﬁtt.

But the Colonels then scored nine
more points off of three Nick Zilich ﬁeld
goals to extend their lead to 19-7.

The Generals once again fought
back with another touchdown, making
the score 19-13 after the missed extra
point. On their ﬁnal possession, the
Colonels ran out the clock on W&L.

 

Generals had three fumbles; the re-
sulting Centre drives gave the Colo-
nels 13 points.

Despite the loss, senior Chris
Sullivan had yet another impressive
game, recording 29 carries for 1 15 yards.
Sullivan’s remarkable play has been a
driving force of Generals football.

Junior quarterback Peter Dean
also played well. He completed 7-of-
18 passes for 126 yards and two
touchdowns. Sophomore Taylor
Callaham caught four of Dean’s
passes for 67 yards. Callaham also was
responsible for both W&L touch-
downs.

Defensively, Mafﬁtt led the way
with 15 tackles, an interception, a
fumble recovery and a sack.

The loss to Centre this weekend
hit the Generals hard but also gave them
a good indication of what needs to be
worked on this week during practice.

PAGE 7

BARRETT DAWS/'lHE Rl.\'G—TL'll1PHl

 

W&L hosts Old Dominion Ath_ BACKFIELD COMBO. junior Peter Dean ﬁres a pass as senior tailback Chris Sullivan

1

N.

' I

ington for the second week in a row
on Saturday in order to battle one of
the school’s longest standing rivals,

seven years, the home team had only
won twice. In addition, after last
year’s 42-10 loss to Centre at Wilson

“If one thing kept the team from
victory, it was the turnovers,” W&L
head coach Frank Miriello said. The

letic Conference foe Randolph-Ma-
con at 1:30 p.m. on Saturday.

Kimmel serves as team, campus leader

coLIrrrsroI'SEoIrIs l2\'K)R\lA1l()N
SENIOR LEADERSHIP. Volleyball captain Stacey Kimmel has led
the Generals to a 13-4 record, including a 4-0 mark in the Old
Eominion Athletic Conference, this season.

W&L runs into
-busy weekend

BY DAVID CROWELL

.lsSIsI‘.\NT SPORTS EDITOR
_, The Washington and Lee men’s and women’s cross
;’r3;ountry teams had a busy weekend, sending their teams
it two different meets.
, On Friday, the Generals competed in Charlotte, N.C.,
at the Great American Cross Country Festival. With the
Eﬁeld consisting almost entirely of Division I runners, the
‘men’s team ﬁnished 10th out of 14 teams, while the women
{ﬁnished 17th out of 24 squads.
3. Junior Andy Schorr led the Generals with a 34th-place
ﬁnish after crossing the line in 30:04.20.
, “I think I ran a pretty good race. The course was
‘tough, especially with all the rain we’ve gotten, so the
times weren’t great,” Schorr said. “I was running ahead of
runners from Mary Washington, one of our opponents in
.1 the region. Putting it in perspective, I was very happy.”
Sophomore Steven Chambers, completing the course
-In 31:03.30, took 54th place while freshman Andrew
Johnson followed closely behind, finishing 14 seconds
ijlater to take 57th place.
In the women’s race, freshman Molly Drake ran an-
other strong race to lead the Generals. Drake ﬁnished the
' course in 22:14.50, good enough for 69th place. Senior
Burke Duncan shook off some early-season soreness to
_ ﬁnish 13 seconds behind Drake and take 81st place.
Freshman Betsy Frayer was the third W&L runner to
< dross the line, ﬁnishing in 23:02.20 and taking 100th place.
Frayer noted the team was a bit disappointed by the
weather and the Generals’ subsequent performance.
4 “I think we expected a fast course, but the weather
, hurt us,” she said. “We were a bit surprised by the course,
I but I think we reacted well. There was still room for im-
;_ provement, though.”
Frayer and the team did, however, ﬁnd encourage-
' ment with the return of Duncan.
1 “I think her presence helps. She’s a great leader and
. the freshmen look up to her,” Frayer said. “If she can stay
 healthy, we should find success at conference and
regionals.”
A On Saturday, W&L hit the road again, going to the
Roanoke Invitational in Salem, where the women placed

BY MICHAEL LEE
svorrs WRITER

Catching up with senior Stacey Kimmel can
prove to be rather difﬁcult. On Thursday after-
noon, I found her in the Science Center, pre-
senting the results of her summer geology re-
search, just a few short hours before she would
leave for the Emory Classic volleyball touma-
ment in Atlanta.

Kimmel had spent the summer surveying
and modeling the Scott Hollow Cave in Monroe
County, W. Va., with senior Noah Weber and jun-
ior Rob Burnside, on the Robert E. Lee summer
research scholarship.

Kimmel attended Alamo Heights High
School in San Antonio, where her parents, Karen
and Bob, still reside. She originally came to W&L
as a physics major, but didn’t enjoy it very much.
Her advisor suggested she try out geology, and
the rest is history. “The enviromnent here is per-
fect to study geology,” she said.

In addition to her time in the Science Cen-
ter, Kimmel has managed to remain involved
around campus. She was the member educator
at Kappa Alpha Theta sorority last year, as well
as being a dorm counselor, and is a member of
LIFE.

Perhaps her brightest star, however, shines
in the Warner Center, where she is the captain
of the volleyball team.

Kimmel is the only upperclassman on the
team this year. She has had to help ﬁll the void
left by Lindsay Ruckert’s graduation, as well as
help prepare the current sophomores to lead the
team next year. In that, she has done a superb

seventh out of 12 teams with 165 points and the men ﬁn-

ished eighth out of 12 teams with 172 points.

Senior Jen Fallon led the Generals, ﬁnishing the six-

kilometer course in 26:26 to take 22nd place.

Freshman Ashley Brown ﬁnished in 26:56 (25th place)
and junior Samantha Snabes ﬁnished in 36th place, cross-

ing the line in 27:40.

Sophomore Wes Bell led the men’s squad, taking sev-

enth place by ﬁnishing in 28:38.

“It will be a huge help when Wes gets back fully,”

ﬁeld. (File photo)

job — her teammates have nothing but praise
for her. '

“Stacey’s a very valuable asset in terms of
communication on the court,” sophomore set-
ter Jennifer Lux said.

“Stacey’s been a great captain,” sopho-
more outside hitter Emily Wolfing said. “She’s a
great person to go to both on and off the court.”

Sophomore middle blocker Quintina
Conway pointed out, “She knows everyone on
campus, and everyone knows who she is. She’s
a great leader because she knows what needs
to be done, and she motivates us.”

Kimmel spared no compliment about the
team, either. “We have an amazing team,” she
said. “There’s a tremendous amount of talent,
and they’re going to be great.”

The senior’s plans for next year are not con-
crete yet, but she has at least some ideas. “I
want to work for one or two years in the ﬁeld,
and work toward my doctorate. I’d someday like
to go into pro-bono consulting for Third World
countries.”

Perhaps the best measure of the respect
Kimmel is afforded on this campus is the num-
ber of people who stopped to talk to her in the
few minutes I was able to meet with her. Simply
sitting in the Great Hall of the Science Center, at
least a dozen professors and students stopped
to compliment her on the presentation, or to say
hello.

Stacey Kimmel is going to be missed when
she graduates in June. Her time as a General has
set an example for all of us, and hopefully we
can all take something from her in the year to
come.

CAPTAIN LEADS

TEAM. Seniorjen

Fallon’s time of BY JEREMY FRANKLIN

26:26 at the SPORTS EDITOR

Roanoke

Invitational on If scores from the Buck Leslie
Saturday lcd Invitational at the Lexington Golf &
Washington and Country Club on Monday and Tues-
Lee and was day are any indication, the Washing-
good enough for ton and Lee golf team is in good
22nd place shape for the next few years.
overall. The The Generals shot a 304-308-
Generals women 612 to place second behind Old Do-
ﬁnished Seventh minion Athletic Conference foe
Out Of 12 tﬂams Hampden-Sydney, which ﬁred a 306-
at the meet, while 3()2__6()8_

the men’s team But sophomores Ged Johnson
Placed eighth‘ and Carlos Spaht were the top fm-
their 12-tearn

ishers for W&L, and freshman Tom

team’s scoring. Johnson placed
fourth overall with a 76-73-149,
while Spaht tied for sixth by turning
in scores of 75-78—153.

Senior co-captains Chip
Campbell (78-77) and Chuck Green
(75-80) both shot 155 for the two-day
invitational. Borda ﬁred a 79-80-159.

Assistant coach Burr Datz was
impressed with the perfonnance of
Campbell and Green, neither of whom
played their best golf at the Buck
Leslie invite.

Borda ﬁnished ﬁfth, just out of the.

prepares to block any incoming Colonel defenders. Dean ﬁnished 7-of-18 for 126
yards and two touchdowns, while Sullivan rushed 29 times for 113 yards.

Volleyball faces tough
teams, loses 3 at Emory

FROM STAFF REPORTS

ATLANTA — The Washington
and Lee volleyball team faced some stiff
competition this weekend, dropping
three matches at the Emory Classic.

W&L (13-4) split Friday’s pair
of matches, dropping a contest to
Texas Lutheran, 30-14, 30-19, 30-21,
before bouncing back to top East
Texas Baptist, 30-26, 30-25, 30-25.

In the early loss, sophomore
outside hitter Michelle Chastain led
the Generals by registering 10 kills.
Freshman libero Christine Gladysz
totaled 16 digs, and sophomore Jen-
nifer Lux notched 27 assists.

Chastain paced the Generals in
the second match as well, posting
12 kills and 12 digs. Sophomore out-
side hitter Emily Wolfing added nine
kills and 11 digs while freshman
middle blocker Susan Gaillard
chipped in nine kills.

The Generals dropped both
matches on Saturday, as Southwest-
ern University dealt W&L a 36-34,
30- 17, 30-28 defeat. Emory, who ended
W&L’s 2001 season in the second
round of the NCAA Division IH Tour-
nament, notched a 30-27, 24-30, 30-
22, 31-29 victory over the Generals.

“They were struggling with their
swings,” Datz said. “The golf swing
is a ﬁnely tuned thing... I know that
you want to try and steer the ball,
and it’s hard to do that. For them to
come in and shoot as well as they
did, it speaks of the great character
they have.”

Datz said that the Generals were
disappointed with the result of the
invitational; they led Hampden-
Sydney by two strokes after the ﬁrst
round. But he gave credit to the Ti-
gers, led by co-medallist J.B.
Richardson’s 71-73——144.

“We know we can play better,
and just didn’t,” Datz said. “To their
credit, when the ga1ne’s on the line,
you’ve got to shoot some great num-
bers. Hampden-Sydney came
through with some great scores.”

Richardson tied for ﬁrst with
Tim Desmarais, who shot a 71-73-
144 for Roanoke. As a team, the Ma-
roons placed third with a 31 1-303-
614, also benefiting from Dusty
Throckmorton’s third—place ﬁnish at
74-74—l48.

Another ODAC school, Virginia
Wesleyan, turned in a 313—305—6l8
performance in fourth place. Chris-

In the loss to the Pirates,
Gaillard ﬁnished with 1 1 kills and four
blocks. Classmate Taylor Gibson
chipped in eight kills and ﬁve blocks
while Gladysz added 19 digs. Lux
amassed 27 assists and eight digs.

Wolfing and Chastain led the
Generals, combining for 33 kills and
36 digs. Lux totaled 47 assists.

Gaillard was the lone General to be
represented on the all-toumament team.

W&L competes at ITA

FREDERICKSBURG —— The
W&L women’s tennis team sent three
players to singles semiﬁnals and three
doubles teams to the ﬁnals at the ITA
South Regional this weekend.

Sophomore Lindsay Hagerrnan
reached the semiﬁnals of the No. 1
singles bracket, while freshman
Patty Roberts and Lisa Mabry are at
the same stage of No. 2 singles.

Hagennan and Eriko Proko ad-
vanced to the finals of the top
doubles ﬂight, while Mabry and
Roberts square off against W&L
junior Ellie Simpson and sophomore
Marie Trimble in the championship.

The Generals conclude play to-
day with all semiﬁnals and ﬁnals.

Golf places 2nd at home invite

Sophomores lead way for Generals at annual W&L Buck Leslie Invitational

topher Newport ﬁnished ﬁfth at 318-
303—62l.

Datz was also impressed with
the condition of the course at the
Lexington venue, especially consid-
ering the extended drought that has
affected the region.

“The weather couldn’t have
been better, the course is in really
ﬁne shape,” Datz said. “The super-
intendent, Randy Harris, did a great
job with the greens.

“They were as fast as I’ve seen
them in six or seven weeks,” he said.
“The course was in as good a shape
as it could be.

“There were some really good
scores, and we shot some of them.”

The ODAC season is still sev-
eral months away, but the Generals
should fare well in a conference that
features defending NCAA Division
III national champion Guilford.

“We’re deﬁnitely one of the two
top, maybe three top teams,” Datz
said. “We’re in good shape. We’ve
got a solid team.”

W&L will meet Guilford today
and tomorrow at the Tom O’Bryant
Invitational, held at The Cardinal in
Greensboro, N.C.

Schorr said. “He’s keeping up with the top pack in prac-
tice, so his ﬁtness level is definitely there.”

Junior Rusty Meyer and freshman Todd Martin fol-
lowed Bell, taking 24th and 37th with times of 30:00 and
30:55, respectively.

The men’s and women’s teams return to competition
next Saturday at the Dickinson Invitational.

“Right now, we’re right on schedule, especially with
Wes coming back,” Schorr said. “We’re on the right train-
ing schedule and we’re getting into our top physical shape.
We’re on track to be one of the top two in the confer-
ence.”

Cover W&L

Contact Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin at
fmmé/z°iy@z2//i/.ea’u or Assistant Sports Editor
David Crowell at crowe//d@u//Mada.

sports for The

Rzﬂg-mm P/92'.

 

  

l‘A(:li 0

DPORTS --

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2002

 

Generals marooed  

W&L plays well in 1-0 loss
to defending ODAC
champions on the road

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

SALEM — David Lechtrecker’s
goal off a J .M. Monger centering pass
at 9:32 of the first half was the only
scoring as Roanoke defeated Wash-
ington and Lee in men’s soccer at Eliza-
beth Campus on Saturday.

The loss dropped W&L to 1-5-1
overall, 0-3 in the Old Dorriiriion Ath-
letic Conference, while the Maroons
improved to 7-2 in their ODAC opener.

Veteran head coach Rolf Piranian
saw too many positives in his team’s
play to be too disappointed with the
loss.

“It was a very great effort on our
kids’ part,” Piranian said. “They
played hard, they played smart. They
did everything we asked them to do
but score goals. We obviously
wanted to win that game, but our kids
battled well.”

The rough start to the season for
the Generals is due in large part to so
many new faces in the lineup. W&L
has 13 freshmen on the roster this
year, and several of them see sigriiﬁ-
cant playing time.

But they’re adapting well, and
two of them in particular had big
games against the Maroons.
Midfielder Derrick Lott held
Roanoke’s Regi Francois, who en-
tered the match with seven goals in
eight games, in check, and defender
Kevin Pharris racked up good minutes
in the back third for W&L.

“We deﬁnitely outplayed them in
the back,” said senior goalkeeper Tim
Foley, who made three saves. “We had

freshmen like Kevin Phanis step up
and play a big game. Derrick con-
trolled (Francois) in the midﬁeld. So

we had a lot of younger guys step-
ping up and playing big games.”

The Generals lirriited Roanoke to
a total of 12 shots, and the Maroons
had very few good scoring chances
despite attempting 12 comer kicks.

“Their goal was the only real scor-
ing chance,” Piranian said. “I think our
defense did an excellent job.”

W&L’s best chance to tie the
game came midway through the sec-
ond half, when freshman Walker
Nickles blasted a shot that careened
off the post. Sophomore Brian Pirkle
caught the follow-through, but his
shot rolled wide of the net.

The Generals ﬁnished with seven
shots, while Roanoke goalie Chris
Ebeling recorded one save.

“We’ve got to put the ball in the
back of the net,” Piranian said. “We
created at least five outstanding
chances. A good team can bury those
chances.”

Despite the ﬁnal margin, Foley
believed that the Generals outplayed
Roanoke on the afternoon.

“Obviously you’re never satis-
ﬁed with a loss, but this is the best
we’ve played all year,” he said. “This
is a small victory for us because we
outmanned them today.

“Everyone stepped up and
played a big game. We just couldn’t
put one away.”

The loss to Roanoke followed a
3-0 defeat for W&L at the hands of
Guilford in Greensboro, N.C., on
Wednesday.

Tim Imaﬁdon scored in the 39th
minute to give the Quakers a 1-0 lead,
while Aran Haven—O’Donnell and
Ampofo Darko added second-half
scores for Guilford.

Sean Beach recorded the shut-
out by making one save, while Foley
recorded six saves in the Generals’ net.
Guilford outshot W&L 20-6.

Piranian has seen improvement
from his team in almost every game.

Goon GAME, BAD RESULT. junior midﬁelderjacob Stoehr and the Generals played
well against Roanoke, but couldn’t ﬁnd the net in a 1-0 loss.

“It’s a lousy record, but we’re
positive,” he said. “We’re still taking
shape as a team. The team’s coming
together. We’re going to win some
games.”

W&L fries Wesleyan at home

oanoke

 

C(L’lUP.\YOFSl‘OlllSlNR]lI\lAl1()l~l

W&L travels to Emory & Henry
for a 4 p.m. contest on Wednesday.
The Generals play their home opener,
an ODAC match against Randolph-
Macon, at.3 p.m. on Saturday.

Von Stemberg
and junior for-
ward Fontaine

The outcome pleased head
coach Neil Cunningham, who also

wornen’s soccer team earned a pair
of road victories this week in prepa-
ration for ﬁve straight home Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference matches
over the ﬁrst half of October.

W&L (5-1-2, 3-1-1 ODAC)
started the week with an impressive
5-0 victory over conference rival

 

CUNNINGHAM

(Randolph-Macon) is a greatly im-
provedteamfromlastyearandweweie
surprised in the beginning,” he said
“We boimoedbackreally well, though.”

Women’s soccer wins-  
pair of road matches -  

BY DAVID ckowm‘ The Generals ﬁnished the week
Asslmm SPORTS EDITOR with a 2-1 non-conference victory
at North Carolina Wesleyan on Sat-

The Washington and Lee urday afternoon.

Von Stemberg was the hero as
she tallied both of W&L’s goals to
take over the team lead in goals
(seven) and points (16) on the sell-
son. She started the scoring off an
assist from Hope at the 41 :38 mark.

The Battling Bishops fought
back in the final minutes as Canﬁl

Randolph-Macon Woman’s College Velasquez scored in the 83rd minute.
in Lynchburg on Tuesday afternoon. Von Stemberg, however, took an-
Five different Generals foundthe other feed from Hope to nailthe game-
back of the net against the Wildcats, winner past Rachael Whicker, who
with sophomore made ﬁve saves on the day for NC.
midﬁelder Rom- Wesleyan, less than two minutes later.
ney Willson For the Generals, sophomore
providing the Emily Barker played all 90 minutes
game-winner. in goal, recording one save to earn
Freshman the victory.
midﬁelder Gina The non-conference match pro-

vides Cunningham’s squad with
more experience as the women head
into the meat of their schedule, a run

Marcoux added ﬁrst-half goals as of six straight ODAC games.
W&L took a 3-0 halftime lead. Heading into these matches, the
Sophomore forward Maggie second-year coach is conﬁdent in
Hope and senior midﬁelder Jenny his team. .
Thomas added goals at the 47th and “We’d like to have the ﬁrst game
80th minutes, respectively, to pro- (a 1-0 loss to Virginia Wesleyan on
vide the final margin. Sept. 7) back, but I’m happy with
Von Stemberg, Thomas, fresh- where we’re at. We’re playing well ”
man Kerry Giblin and junior Susannah Cunningham said. “I think the other
Hewlett each added an assist. teams in the conference that are 5-0

right now haven’t played the tough-
est competition yet. This next month

was happy with his team’s resilience will be key.”

in the early going. Cunningham hopes that playing
“Looking at the‘ stats, we pretty at home for the next two weeks will

much controlled the game, but aid his team through ODAC waters.

The Generals open their
homestand on the Liberty Hall
Fields on Wednesday when they
face Emory&Henry at4p.m.

k
SCOREBOARD

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

Sunday afternoon brought the Marlins of Virginia
Wesleyan to the Alumni Field for a 1 p.m. ﬁeld hockey
match. W&L won the match with a final score of 4-1.

The first half of the match was closely played. Vir-
ginia Wesleyan managed to stay on the offensive for much
of the half, but was unable to convert their plays, scoring
only once.

W&L (3-6, 2-3 Old Dominion Athletic Conference)
answered back once, from sophomore forward Kristen
Brown, but was not able to capitalize on their seven shots
more than that once during the half. That was in large part
due to Virginia Wesleyan goalie Margie Baker, who man-
aged to guard the cage rather well throughout the half.

The second half saw more action on the ﬁeld. Ninety
seconds into the half, Brown broke away from the
Wesleyan defense and streaked toward the goal, only to
be fouled by a lone defender. The resulting penalty comer
did not yield a goal.

Ten rriinutes later, however, junior forward Kelly Taffe
scored, with an assist by Brown to give W&L the lead,
and the Generals never looked back. Junior forward Jes-
sica Lake broke away from the pack and scored unas-
sisted with l9: 12 remaining in the half to bring the score to
3-1, and Taffe scored the ﬁnal W&L goal with 40 seconds
left in the game.

A Wesleyan player did manage to shoot the ball into
the goal during the second half, but because her shot
came from outside the penalty circle, the goal was disal-
lowed. The “anti-crease” lived up to its purpose.

Freshman goalkeepers Courtney Harrison and Elise
Gelinas split the game in the net for W&L, garnering two saves,
while Wesleyan’s Baker earned eight saves for the day.

Head coach Wendy Orrison was very pleased with
her team’s performance. “We tried out a new lineup,” she
said. “We moved people around to a few different posi-
tions, and so that took some getting used to, but by the
second half, we were really able to turn it up.”

Senior captain Kathleen Gibson noted a deﬁnite dif-

T AlLlEjA.\llSON/ THE RING-‘ll .11 PH
MARLINS FILLETED. Sophomore Ali Santoro and the Generals
beat Virginia Wesleyan 4-1 at home on Sunday.

ference in the team. “We’ve been working hard, but we’ve
hadisome very tough games,” Gibson said. “We managed
to learn something from each one, though, and we brought
that out today. We played with more attitude today, and
that helped a lot.”

The win over Virginia Wesleyan followed a pair of
tough road ODAC losses for the Generals. W&L dropped
a 2-1 overtime contest to Roanoke on Wednesday and
then lost to conference powerhouse Eastern Mennonite
3-0 on Friday.

The Generals return to the ﬁeld on Wednesday with
an away game at Bridgewater, and they return home on
Friday for a 4 p.m. Homecoming game against Catawba.

Caowaoldﬂ @060/one 617//tor!/y

Fine Chocolate Confections

Downtown Lexington

www.cocoamill.com
115 West Nelson Street - 540-464-8400

Mail Order Anywhere

Tiurlay-'l'hrday .......-.im..-.-mp.
 .... ..ll:Ih.-.-ltrﬂpn.

 

SATUFtDAY’S FOOTBALLYARDLINE

Invitational

Monday, Sept. 30
Women’s Tennis
W&L at Rolex Regional

Second Quarter
CC — Walker 5 pass from Behrendl (Bitch kick), 12:05
CC — Zillch 32 FG, 0:25
Third Quarter

W&L —- Callaham 11 pass from Dean (Whitﬁeld kick), 8:55 Tournament
CC —- Zilich 24 FG, 4:19
Fourth Quarter Tmm’ 0“ 1
Volleyball

CC —- Zillch 42 FG, 14:55
CC — Zillch 24 FG, 9:45

W&L — Callaham 35 pass from Dean (kick tailed), 4:28 Wedlle8d8Y, 001- 2

RECE|VlNG—Washington and Lee: Callaham 4-67, Brimer 1-
28, Thomas 1-25, Caramore 1-6. Centre: Engleman 6-66, Schneider
5-65, Woodall 4-38, Britt 4-31, Crowley 4-19, Walker 2-42, Santos
2-17, Beinkampen 1-5, Smith 1-4.

lNTEFlCEPTlONS—Washingion and Lee: Matlitt 1-0.

Centre 19, W&L 13

centre 19, Washington and Lee 13 sept 3o.o¢t_ 1
Washington and Lee 0 0 7 6-13 eon
Centre 0 10 3 6-19 W&L at GuiltordlTom O’Bryant

Sweet Briar at W&L, 6:30 p.m.

Randolph-Macon 26, Catholic 18
Davidson 44, Emory & Henry 7
Bridgewater 25, Christopher Newport 6
Hampden-Sydney 38, Guilford 0

Friday,  4
Field Hockey
Catawba at W&L, 4 p.m.

Oct. 5-7

W&L at lTA Rolex Southeast Regional t

Saturday, Oct. 5
Cross Country

W&L SPORTS SCHEDULE: SEPT. 30-OCT. 6 ,,

W&L at Dickinson Invitational

Volleyball

W&L at Goucher Invitational
Women’s Soccer

Guilford at W&L, 11 a.m.
Football

Randolph-Macon at W&L, 1:

Field Hockey M , S
W&L Cc W&L at Bridgewater, 4 p.m. R::d;ph?§‘:::)n at W&L 3
First downs 12 20 "°"'3 S°°°°' ’
Rushes-yards 42-114 31-90 W&L 3‘ f5"'°'Y 3* ”°"'Y- 4 P-"L Sunday, Oct. 5
Passing yards 126 287 w°m°" 3 s°°°°' “""""9 _ ,
Return yards 126 66 Emory & Henry at W&L, 4 p.m. W&L at Radlord invitational
Comp-Alt-lnt 7-18-0 29-41-1
Sacked-Yards lost no 2-12  FOOTBALL GLANCE
Punls 7—35.6 4-41.3
Fumbles-lost 4-3 3-2 094° °Ve'="
Penalties-yards 2-10 8-38 Team W L W L PF
Time of Possession 27:59 32:01 Hampden-Sydney 1 0 3 0 126
Randolph-Macon 1 0 3 1 79
INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS , ‘”F5"‘"9‘°" 5"“ Le“ ‘ ° 1 2 55
RUSHlNG—Washington and Lee: Sullivan 29-113, Caramore Bmgewater 0 0 4 0 138
5-20, Diverio 1-3, Dean ere), Brimer 1-(-14). Centre: Engleman e E"‘°'V_“ ”°"'V ° ° 2 2 6°
54, Beinkampen esa, Britt 3-1o, Berhendt 3-(-12). °“$°r';° ° ; 3 3 
PASSlNG—Washinglon and Lee: Dean 7-18-0-126. Centre: Gm ° 0
Behrendl 29-41-1-287. Sept. 28 Resuﬂs Oct. 5 schedule

Hampden-Sydney at Bridgewater

LaSa||e at Catholic
Greensboro at Guilford
Randolph-Macon at

30 p.m.

p.m.

K1050)
G\l(D

32
103
95
131

W&L

For sports, news and scores from W&L athletics, visit the official Web site at
http://athlet1'cs.wlu.edu or call the Generals Sports Hotline at (540) 458-8998.

r.-‘,.«r_I.-i[.- 1.'l_- n.»;I,.-I .-I, -1;. ‘r.*'_I.   ,. 

