 

 

  
   

 

  

 

 
  

 

-1."! ~\

 

 

 

 

  

- . J ‘ Is ' '
 In -, ‘('»J'.i".vC-er*l§='\30"ts?....’V vl  U5‘*l‘.'€-WITY
’Q378~7.‘39   ‘-“A 24050
\/a O 'l"w.;. 'K:'.‘\r;-'l¥‘.\E l"t«.t   I   H ‘ I. H -.  “ I o    o ’    - ﬁt TIE: Rigs.-’i'=,‘:.e P221
M3 INSIDE L .. . y ,   ..  A INDL
C.»2—— ‘D  TA‘ :7 _ ii I T L «_ U - I 7 fNet=:ws l
..   1 SHll\ GTOR AM) El: NIVERSITY ,  .   . .
THE PHI  O1>ii\:<->ms 2
WILI RETURN  Lnss‘ s
I I Y 26TH  1 ’ SP()R'I‘S 4
.1 
. (I) 
\’=rnr::t::»: Ct’, No. ill in  l.lE.f>{§e\'t§'l'(.‘-‘xi,   Eléiétl _ M‘-P-‘~s‘x1‘-"¥>’.3li"-‘A’ 13, 3503
‘ ' ' a poem specially composed for from 34 states and several foreign One fourth of the graduates :-. ‘ -  ' — ‘ , "
   the occasion. ' countries, including Cameroon and having accepted positions in O 
    W&L law students chose Stein Canada. A Washington, DC.
to address the approximately 500 California,Maryland,NewYork, Another 21 percent of the law
I FROM 5"R\l‘l‘ REPORTS people because of his humor, wide Pennsylvania and Virginia have the graduates are going on to presti-
ranging career and his legal work in largest number of students. gious judicial clerkships.
5 Entertainer and lawyer Ben Stein poverty law, libel law, securities and Before pursuing their jurist W&L’s School of Law recently
delivered the commencement ad- federal trade regulations, according to doctorate degrees at W&L, nearly was ranked the 18th best legal pro-
* dress for Washington and Lee the W&L website. 12 percent of this year’s graduates gram in the nation, moving up two
University’s School of Law Sunday Stein, best known for his 'week— had already had earned advanced spots from U. S. News and World
afternoon on the Front Lawn. night television show “Win Ben degrees, including several PhDs. Rep0rt’s previous annual rankings ...... ..
“There is one investment for Stein’s Money,” teaches courses in Others had worked in a va— of the top 50 public and private law
which there are no capital gains tax, politics and law at American Univer- riety of government, corporate schools in the nation.
4 no state tax, no income tax, no estate sity, Pepperdine, and the University and finance positions. Preceding the commencement ex-
tax,” Stein said. “It is investment with of California at Santa Cruz. W&L Law Class of 2002 will ercises was a luncheon for graduates A
the best returns possible: love.” Stein last spoke at W&L dur- soon serve as attorneys with and their families, who also were in— R00l\S TheR1tglu
Stein also discussed regular ing Winter Term 2002. firms and organizations in a vited to a reception following the FRESHLY HATCHED. W&L contributes over 100 new lawyers to the field. After
bowel movements and delivered This ear’s 117 raduates come dozen states. graduation ceremony.’ aduation, the will take rivate and ublic "obs in 12 states.
,i_ Y 2 8‘ Y P P l
0 1 .
Alpha Kappa Alpha   Aldri d g e tal k s  
l I I t' O
%~ ' BY PETER QUACKENBUSH _ ’ _
STAFF WRITER BY l.\N l\lClLROY tion game against the Cuban na-
' ~ ~ Y i tional team.
Inthe upcoming months, Washington and Lee’s snsns ssnns B efore joining MLB
‘ erenty sew may beeemealnne mere erewded Richard “Sandy” Alderson, Alderson worked 17 years for the
A coalition of students is mounting an effort executive vice president for Ma— Oakland Athletics, serving as the
to ad:1Al‘l)’lna1I:sappaA1pne’ the nanenis eldest hls‘ jor League Baseball, will speak on franchise’s general counsel, gen-
toric ly ac sorority, to campus. “Baseball and eral mana and side t.
At a meeting held last Wednesday, the group Labor, Just uworkggﬁg in bgsresbail 2/as not
3, discussed the progress already made and the chal— Outside the Something I had planned on,»
lengeikhnlgte TOad ages: 'd d d Strike Zone.” Alderson admits. “But, I could not
  one
’ ’ ’ s onsored b t "t t k '
. said freshman Olalani Oyegbola. While W&L’s ﬁve Vhashington and h:srehlzilll)s..which wasssdrimporthlnri
‘s sororities contribute a great deal to campus, Leeis Studem_ in my youth»
Oyeghehé stililiga ett)h,e}’ dO nOt meet the needs Of run Contact ALDEON During his tenure in Oakland,
women 0 e lel ' Committee. ‘ the Athl t’ ‘ t d f Ameri-
Shppdrters argued that the new sererhy The speech will touch on a host can Leasgtlises Wsepstusshansiiliionships
1 would eneehrage mere nnnerhy wemen to at’ of issues related to the current state and won the World Series in 1989.
‘ tend W&L‘ Aeeerding to the regisddns es‘ of baseball, Alderson said. The late 80s was an “interesting and
nee’ less than 4 peseent ef tne'nndehgsedhdte' " ’ “l’ll cover the current status of exciting time for the organization ”
pephleden is week‘ the collective bargaining agree— remembersAlderson.“Thatteamhad
. FreshmenKee1eHdrm°hagIeeddnhdhleekse' ment, most critically the need for a lot of personality with Mark
s rend’ wehld iheresse nnhenty Presenee en ed1hPhs' competitive balance between clubs ' McGuire (Jose) Canseco Walt
“I think that dne ef the major hnheffs (fer as well as the possibility of con— Weiss and’(Dennis) Eckersly itmong
ittinorities considering W&L) is that there are traction” Said Alderson “I.” also others_,,
he eldek sehehnes en edmPhs’s Hdhmeh send‘ be discussing more game related Before joining the Oakland A’s,
* She further suggested that the addltlon of 3 topics such as the home run race.” Alderson privately practiced law.
historically black sorority would expand the As executive vice president, Prior to this,'he earned degrees from
eerhPhs’s ehhhrel experienee Alderson reports directly to MLB Dartmouth College and Harvard
The group continued their discussion by President Bob DuPuy and Commis— Law School and served four years
talking about the humanitarian contributions Al— sioner Allan H. “Bud” Selig. with the U.S. Marines, which in-
! pha Kappa Alpha would make to the university.  , Since joining MLB in 1998, cluded a tour of duty in Vietnam.
Sdphemdre Zdldydh Bradford dlsehssed the PH0T0BY.lEBBR00*s/ T’1t’Ri".rWP5i Alderson has overseen baseball op- Alderson now works for MLB in
sororhyis de‘heattOh tO service AKA’s thst ahh is TEARING UP EARTH. Pbi photographers scaled the occurrence at back campus. Construction sounds ciatiohs, umpirihg, on_ficld opera- Now York City_ Ho and his wife Linda
“Se1'V1ee t0 all1'n3I1klTld,” said BT3dfO1'da end 3eh1eVes roof of Leybutn Library to bring W/ashington and have also not been absent, interrupting classes on tioits and security and facility man- have two children.
‘ thls ahh through successful PrOgIathhhhg- Lee this bird’s-eye view of the emerging University the Colonnade. The University Commons, which agcmcim “lt’s not often that you are
The sOrOritY’s signature service PrO.leet is Commons. Mostly finished with the buildings is to contain the new dining hall and club offices, Of the efforts he has spear- able to have a major figure in the
the IV)’ AKAden1Y- _ . foundation, construction workers have erected is scheduled to be completed by Fall Term 2003. headed, Alderson remains most proud world of sports on campus and we
. IYY AKAdethtes ate eOhOat1On Centers vertical support girders. The sight of machines Construction of the new Fine Arts Buildingwaits , of his accomplishments in resolving thought it would add some Vari_
bthlt 1h South Afnea fochslhg Oh human re‘ like this Komatsubackhoe has becorneaconimon on the wings. umpire disputes. ety for a spring term speaker ”
7* sehree development‘ other programs inelhde “I have been successful deal- said Contact Head Chair Sain
ON TRACK, a support system for at—risk chil— _ i ith m -res mer in them L h 1 ~
dren in sehOO1s and Back tO Sleep’ 3 SIDS After enough members have been he" to Afrissn_Amsrissns’” ssld And“ iiitgowonessltlasflf alrsild then dgveslsoping sns‘P(2s1rZticsui:i1l1}(’srat this Point in
awareness PFOgTa1n- erhhed’ they would be given a fun Chapter‘ This “AKA has women sfau sthms g’°.“t’s’s serssd that staff intd a more professional time with all of the issues that Ma—
Brddferd said that interested students had does not necessarily mean a snnpter nouns’ Freshman Tlffsny Jenkins’ “The ssmnty sxlsts for and widely reSPected grouP ” lor League Baseball is addressing
e’ met with Associate Dean of Students Courtney “About 99.9 p€rC6I1t Of historically blaCk the hettennent Of Tnanklnd-” . Alderson Said this is a great opportunity to hea;
Penn during the PTOeess Of recruiting POten‘ Greek ergenizhdens do hot have n°nses’” In 190s’ Alpha Kappa Alpha sorority he‘ Alderson has also led Special from an insider about the future of
0 ha1 member s and establishing 3 ehnPteT- Penn send‘ Penn stressed that eldek frdtehhh Came Amenssns first Grsskelsnsr Osgsmzansn projects involving international America’s favorite pastime.”
Assddate Dean °f students Buddy Addns» “es and s°’°"n“ were nsnnieanny dine" esdhhshed FY sleek °°.hege w°‘h.°n' play including the 2000 Olympic Alderson will begin his talk at
d who oversees Greek hfe’ said that the “sealed” em from W&L counterparts’ A°°°“hh.s to Andhs.’ these ls Currently Games in Sydney. where Team 7:30p.m. tomorrow night in Lee
eess is tOT the “EFOUP Of students tO aPPfOneh whne AKA was founded as n sorority for he move to bsme s hlstsnssny black fsatsre USA won gold and the Baltimore Chapel. Admission is free and open
the Pan-He11e1-tic about forming a colony” black women, “membership is not restricted just nlty to campus. Orioles mp to Cuba for an eXhibi_ to the general public.
M O O -
THE  or Rocmm comm Computer S cience hires AI expert
BY PETER Djimum. “F3rt:xamplet;how can comlgliczitted prpglrarcriis likeolanguage
V V an oug e run on our io ogica ar ware.
I ndsssss EDITOR One of his most important achievements showed that
W&L’s Computer Science Department will add Simon a certain simple computer can produce language and
D. Levy to its team Fall Term. Levy, currently an assistant thought very similar to humans’. This is the focus of his
professor at Brandeis University, has researched the ﬁeld of thesis work, which he is planning to continue at W&L.
‘ Artificial Intelligence. The subject is Levy has also worked on speech recognition at Los
' new to W&L, and an opportunity for Alarnos National Laboratory.
students in computer science, biology, Levy chose W&L because it was “a top—ranked uni-
neuroscience and psychology. versity with outstanding students and a primary focus on
Levy earned a Bachelor’s in lin- undergraduate education. “Objectively, W&L was the
ot guistics from Yale University and a perfect choice.”
master’s degree in linguistics from the Levy was impressed by W&L’s sense of community,
7' University of Connecticut and one in the attention paid to the future, and the honor system,
computer science from Brandeis Uni— L which was “the most unique aspect of W&L.”
tt versity. He is pursuing his doctorate Es/Y Levy plans to participate in a new W&L interdis-
" in neural networks and language processing. ciplinary program in dynamical systems. Dynamical
Neural networks are ccom uters that mimics the ner— systems, s stems that chan e over time, include the
P Y 8
vous system of a living organism. brain and Weather.
“Outside of computer science, I enjoy studying languages, “(Levy) brings with him a wide range of intellectual
1. philosophy, psychology and cognitive science,” said Levy. interests, 21 strong commitment to teaching, and an estab-
“Apart from all that academic stuff, I’m also a martial arts en— lished research program,” said Computer Science Depart-
thusiast and would like to start or join a karate club at W&L.” ment Head Kenneth Lambert. “He is ready to hit the ground
V I  ’ h  .. “I earned a Bachelor’s and Masters degree in Linguis- running in some of our most critical courses, such as Com-
; , , , x _ , snsrs ss nnn sh/Tnnmg‘n'” ls” tics before deciding that Al was asking more interesting puter Organization, Programming Language Design, and
) WET RIDE. Tuesday afternoons rains swelled Woods Creek, turning the Apartments footbridge into a waterfall. questions about language than linguistics was,” Levy Said Data Structures and A1g0ﬁthms_”

 

PAGE 2

Give DC the vote

Status of nation’s capital undemocratic

Taxation without representation was one of the ma-
jor issues American colonists rallied around during the
American Revolution. Unfortunately, every day, the United
States deprives approximately one million of its citizens of
the right to representation in Congress, a situation that is
deplorable and must be ﬁxed immediately.

Although iight—wing Republicans may argue‘ differ-
ently, there is absolutely no reasonable argument to not
have voting legislators in the Senate and the House
from the District of Columbia. Just because some Ameri-
cans may not agree with District citizens politically, it is
no reason to deprive them of the right to representation.

Trent Lott (R-MS) and Jesse Helms (R—N C) are
two senators with whom my political ideals dis-
agree. I, however, do not disagree with the rights
of Mississippi and North Carolina to have senato-
‘ rial representa-
tion. Many of

COMMON SENSE
the arguments
against repre-

IONATHAN WORTHAM ‘O4
sentation are an

attempt to mask an undemocratic agenda designed
to gain seats to maintain/retain a majority in our
legislature. This cannot be allowed.

The District of Columbia is under the direct con-
trol of the Congress. Funding for city services come
directly from Congress. Although the city has a mayor
and council, they cannot pass legislation without con-
gressional approval. As it stands, the people of the
district have absolutely no effective means of making
their agenda known. It is very disturbing to think that I,
as a resident of South Texas, have more impact on the
laws of the District of Columbia than someone who
lives in the shadows of our nation’s capital.

Residents of the district do not even have an equal
share in determining the President, because the 23rd arnend—
ment restricts the niunber of DC electoral votes to the num-
ber of electoral votes of the least populous state (Wyoming),
which has far fewer people than DC. Obviously, the writers
of that constitutional amendment were not thinking of the
one-person, one vote principle. How many presidential can-
didates focus on Wyoming as a critical state in their cam-
paign? By this undemocratic amendment that contradicts
the equal protection clause in the l4tli amendment, our coun-
try is creating a two-tiered system that weighs votes.

Besides the current system being deplorable and
undemocratic, it is also unconstitutional. Although the
Constitution gives Congress total authority over DC,
it does not allow Congress to abridge such provisions
as the ones set forth in our Bill of Rights.

For over 200 years, Congress has relegated the
citizens of the District to second—class citizenship sta-
tus. It is time for our country to live up to the promise
of equal protection and grant DC citizens the right to
elect members to both houses of Congress. After all,
these citizens are expected to perform all of the respon-
sibilities of American citizenship, and thus should en-
joy all of the rights of citizenship. Remember, a vote
against representation for DC is equivalent to a vote
against democracy.

UOTE OF THE WEEK:

I MEAN, I DoN’T EVEN

GET EMBARRASSED
WHEN I THROW UP IN FRATER—

NITY BATHROOMS ANYMORE.

— ANONYMOUS SOPHOMORE GIRL

Titre: RiN(}~’£‘Utrt Pitt

PINIONS   - 

ANDREWLATIMER ’
OPINIONSEDHOR
EMAr;iAiivEtA@vuuE)u

PictLirE OF THE WEEK

LIKE MANNA FROM HEAVEN. During the past few weeks, passers—by may
have ﬁgured that the Alcohol Task Force had finally bitten the bullet and
started dorm delivery. Either that or someone in the administration has a
great sense of humor. For better or for worse. neither is the case. But

l’ii(nr>E\jArx)N<Tr1E . . . P111

don’t get your hopes up just yet. l\luch to the dismay of countless
exuberant freshmen, the truck merely delivers completely legal bottles of
certifiably zero prOOfSnapple® to the Co-op. University leaders up in
Washington Hall need not get concerned, at least not just yet.

    

Editor-in-chief Matthew B. McDem1ott
Associate Editor Katie J. Howell
Asst. News Editor Imran Naeemullah
Opinions Editor AndrewA.Lat1'mer
Editor-in-Exile Brett T. Kirwan
W&Life Editor Catherine C. Guy
Sports Editor David M. Crowell
Photo Editor MaryE. Guy
Photographer J eb Brooks
Business Manager Paul A. Seifert
Circulation Manager Brian Castleberry
Asst. Business Manager Emily Barker
Advertising Manager William Litton
Internet Editor Peter L. Djalaliev

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent. *

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e—mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following weeks edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁrii-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

Annual Subscription Rate: $30

+_LE_.-_-,.-_ -- E ,.f_ A

Title IX not the asr

At Washington and Lee, we are
a rather privileged bunch in many
ways. Not in the least of which is our
athletic programs, which although not
always headline— grabbing in their per-
formance, certainly provide the op-
portunity to many athletes to prove
their mettle and hone their skills.

Indeed, a statistic the admissions
ofﬁce likes to point out is that approxi-
mately 20 percent of W&L students
play a varsity sport, compared to a
mere three percent average at Divi-
sion I schools. Talk to any athlete, and
he or she will tell you how great their
experience on the team is, how they’re
treated really well, and how much pride
they take in being a General.

Yet, we must realize that we are
indeed a very privileged group of stu-
dents because of our University’s
rather large endowment that helps

_ fund this level of athletic involvement.

Around the rest of the country,
many colleges have to cut back. Ac-
cording to the New York Times of May
9, the men’s track teams at the Uni-
versity of Vermont, Tulane University,
and Bowling Green University will no
longer exist as of this weekend.

As the Times pointed out, over
the past several years, many other
teams have been affected. Boston
University ended its football pro-
gram after 91 years, Providence Col-
lege cut its baseball team after 80
years, UCLA destroyed its 16 Olym-
pic gold medal-
winning men’s .
swimming team, 
and Iowa State de-
cided its three—time
national champion gymnastics team
was no longer worth keeping.

Reading this, one must surely
wonder, Why would any college
in its right mind eliminate such
seemingly successful teams? The
answer: Title IX.

Title IX is the legalistic term for
the 1972 law that essentially dictates
that nobody can be prevented be-
cause of their gender from participat-
ing in federally funded educational
programs and activities.

In principle, the law advocates
gender equity. After all, why
should women have any less of an
opportunity to receive funds (and
therefore, have teams) than men?

 
 

Despite the fact that women have“

traditionally been less inclined to
play sports than men, the statis-
tics are changing, and it may be
that in ten years,‘ the number of
men and women playing sports is
the same. This is a good thing.

The bad thing is that college
budgets are, after all, limited in their
scope, and therefore cuts must be
made somewhere, and since men domi-
nate (statistically) in sports, they are
the ones who must suffer.

The sad part is, the teams that
suffer are the ones that cost the least.
Boston University’s football program
is actually an anomaly in the football

 RIGI-lT—\X/ING RESPONSE
‘ r  IMEAN NAEEMULLAH ‘O5

 

IN THE CROSSHAIRS: Title IX, although its intent was good-natured, unfairly targets
programs like football, souring the sport experience for college students.

world: most football teams remained
unscathed by Title IX. Even Provi-
dence College’s baseball team is
among the minority, since baseball,
whatever decline it may have experi-
enced since its heyday, is still a popu-
lar and relatively well-funded sport.
No, the real victims are sports like
track and cross-country, swimming,
gymnastics, wres-
tling, and golf. These

little of the glamour
and prestige of foot-
ball, nevertheless are just as physi-
cally rewarding, promote similar team
values of cooperation and respect,
and perhaps more importantly, are
much easier to actually participate in
than football, basketball, or baseball.

The obvious solution, of course,
would be to increase budgets. Sadly,
this is not always possible. With so
many other demands on colleges
these days to expand existing pro-
grams and create new ones, aca-
demic and otherwise, a budget in-
crease for athletics is usually out of
the question, or at least not sufficient
to subsidize the absolute equality
mandated by Title IX. Therefore, it’s

A the guys who have to suffer.

Is it really fair that women’s
equality in sports must come at the
behest of men’s participation? Af-
ter all, as University of Vermont
sophomore Bethany Brodeur said
in the Times, “I’m here as a woman,
thankful to Title IX. But that’s
tough for me to say given the re-
versal of opportunity for these
guys on my team who sometimes
run 30 or 40 miles a week more than
me. They love running just as
much. Where’s their opportunity?”

Those who claim that football is.

to blame are absolutely wrong. Many
of those who say football is to blame
insist that because of its “bloated”

sports, which enjoy ,

funding, the money is not available
to fund programs like track. To some
extent, they are right: after all, the sala-
ries of some football coaches exceed
those of their university presidents.

However, the same scenario ex-
ists in the real world, where a single
football team earns more than the en-
tire Congress combined. Yet, nobody
has managed to muster enough sup-
port to pass a law banning football
players from earning more than
$l35,000ayear.

The market dictates what play-
ers earn; after all, if they’re in demand,
they’ll attract crowds, which attract
advertisers, which combined with
ticket sales, generate massive
amounts of revenue.

The same thing happens with
colleges. These schools are depen-
dent on their star teams to attract
national attention, which in turn fos-
ters their academic reputations, en-
abling them to recruit more talented
students who might otherwise at-
tend other schools.

Cutting football is not the an-
swer; the answer lies in reinter-
preting Title IX so that schools do
not have to meet ridiculous quo-
tas, but instead, meet the demand
posed by their students.

This market-based solution,
which is the fairest to everyone and
is preference-blind, will enable in-
dividual colleges to best meet the
needs of their students. After all, a
school like Washington and Lee
can hardly be expected to have the
same athletic requirements as the
University of Notre Dame, or for
that matter, Swarthmore College.

In Title IX’s case, we’re 30
years behind, but we can at least
begin making amends by advocat-
ing a common—sense approach to
reinterpreting the law that will
best benefit everyone.

MONDAY, MAY 13, 2002
Anothermissive from
Inside the Beltway

What to do about the Farm Bill when
there are no judges?

This past week provided all kinds of excitement
for those of us inside the Beltway. Firstly, I must give
credit where credit is due; Prof. Connelly arranged for
an excellent tour this past Friday. The class met with a
W&L alumnus who now works for the National Secu-
rity Council and another who works in the White House
Counsel’s office. We also enjoyed a tour of Old Execu-
tive Office Building and a photo opportunity at the‘
West Wing of the White House.

Interestingly, I met two other W&L grads this week.
One at a Republican fundraiser, another walking home
from the bank. Former Generals abound in Washing-
ton, in all ﬁelds. My bank buddy is a massage therapist
studying for a Masters Degree in acupuncture.

This week on Capitol Hill, however, things didn’t
go so smoothly. In the Senate, floor debate focused
on the trade
measures and
the Farm Bill.
True to form,
Tom “Puf ”
Daschle, Majority Leader has combined three trade
measures into one, ensuring terrible difficulty in pass-
ing the legislation.

Two of the three measures, Trade Promotion Autlio_r-
ity and the Andean Free Trade Agreement could easily be
agreed to, but since they are combined with the Trade
Authorization Act, a measure over which there is much
debate disagreement, so none of three will pass anytime
soon. Moreover, as time passes, the deadline for reautho—
rization of AFTA, May 16 nears and without action, new
tariffs will be imposed on four developing nations. V

This is just one of many instances where the Demo-
crats have put politics above the health of the nation. Also
this week they have fooled with the future of Ameiica’s
farms and lied about the status of the judicial crisis.

First, they pushed through a huge boondoggle of a
Farm Bill. It increases by seven times the amount of subsi-
dies paid to farmers, most of which goes to huge
agribusinesses and creates a downward spiral in which sub-
sidies spur overproduction, which leads to lower prices and
the need for more subsidies. Also, it represents a huge step
backwards from the 1996 Freedom to Farm Act which en-
couraged free market practices in agriculture.

This is not to mention the blatant hypocrisy of the
bill. Around the world, we encourage developing nations
and our trading partners to deregulate and desubsidize
their agricultural sectors, yet we,_thank to the”Daschle
Democrats, are moving in the opposite direction.

The other front on which they have undeniably pani-
san is with judicial nominees. In fact, my good friend Michael
Denbow, has been working in the Democratic Policy Council
helping to prepare for the dueling press conferences. 
Republicans demonstrated that the Democrats in charge have

DISPAIOA FROM THE DISIRICT
BRETT T. KIRWAN ‘O4

’ behaved very badly and refused to conﬁrm the judges Presi-

dent Bush has nominated. Denbow and his cohorts twisted
the statistics to attempt to explain their intransigence.
Fortunately, the facts were on our side. For ex-
ample, the past three Presidents had all of their first
eight nominees approved in no more than an aver-

_ age of 100 days. On the other hand, eight of Presi-

dent Bush’s nominees have been waiting for more
than a year for a hearing!, let alone a confirmation
vote. And two of the three that were confirmed were
Democrats held over from Clinton’s term.

Also, during the first Congress of each of the three
previous presidencies, 95 percent-plus of the nonri-
nees were confirmed. Now, to the Democrats’ credit,
they have conﬁnned a whopping 52 percent of Presi-
dent Bush’s nominees. Way to go, guys! Sorry Mike,
but the Democrats have been undeniably and irrefut-
ably partisan and ob/structionist.

In other, somewhat childish news, did you know
that New York has a Democratic Representative
named Anthony ‘Weiner?

Finally, the most outrageous news of the week is that <
the families of eleven illegal imrnigrants-have sued the K
Department of the Interior and the Fish and Wﬂdlife Ser-
vice because the agencies failed to place water along the
border and the illegals perished in the hot desert sun.
That’s right, the government is now responsible for plac-
ing water in the Arizona desert so Mexicans have enough
to drink as they illegally attempt to enter our country!
Let’s finish the column with three cheers for trial lawyers.

P.S. Al, the homeless man we pass on the way
to the Metro now spends his days listening to an
MP3 player.

Letter to- the Editor

Alumnus cheers while W&L spins
forever down the nhg/hg grooves of change

Mrs. Judy Konkel, mother of Robyn Konkel
‘O5, and her recent letter voicing her opinion re-
garding the University’s ever present “Prophets
of Doom” is to be commended.

Certainly, we heard such misgivings in the past,
i.e., “N o Marthas” or “Better Dead then Co—ed” and
happily that particular Tradition of the University’s
past lore is no more.

Today, there is at Washington and Lee a
uniquely ever diversifying vibrant Faculty and
Student Body. The malcontents should indeed
transfer to a school which still wallows in all their
sybarite pleasures.

Sincerely,
Donald S. Hillrnan ‘46

 

,..

-i

hr

)1

I

1.

R

J

 

 

 C. GL3‘
W&L1FE EDHUR


l\7loNDAY, MAY I3, 2002!!

W&LrFE

jrza BRO0KS/ The Rziggtzz/zzl’/1:’

l‘Spider—Man’ proves more fun, better than expected

R BY MICHEAL GEORGE
STAFF WRITER

Spider-Manisﬁlled with trite dialogue
. and over—the-top performances, but its
honest humility and clever wit make it a
ﬁlm worth watching.
For most of his life, Peter Parker
(Maguire) has gone unnoticed. A nerdy
«Toner, Peter agonizes over winning the
heart of Mary Jane Watson (Dunst), the
girl next door. His attempts fail, until, while
taking photos for his school paper, a ge-
netically enhanced spider bites him. Pe-
‘ter wakes up the next day to ﬁnd his body
and mind altered. His catlike speed and
reﬂexes help him avoid a bully at school
and impress Mary Jane. He soon discov-
,(ers that he can climb walls, jump great
distances, and shoot webbing from his
wrists. He takes his new powers for
granted, trying to win money at a profes-
sional wrestling match. But when a thief
ﬂ. .

ldlls his uncle, he dedicates his life to ﬁght-
ing crime.

Director Sam Raimi, who helrned the
‘Evil Dead’ trilogy and’ Xena Warrior Prin-
cess’, adds his unique sense of humor to
the ﬁlm. His style is oomy, but when com-
bined with the understated modesty of
Maguire’s performance, gives the ﬁlm a

humble charm Willem Dafoe, who plays ‘

Spider-Man’s nemesis The Green Goblin,
eases from being insane to subtly manipu-
lative. Dafoe tries to manipulate to Peter
through chilling and conniving words. His
performance, however, fails when he puts
on the Green Goblin suit, as his acting is
too over—the—top. '
Although the ﬁlm’s special effects
are impressive, they are distracting and
not innovative. Rairni spends too much
time showing Spider-Man ﬂy instead of
developing his characters. The ﬁlm is ﬁlled
with plot holes and unrealistic devices. It
is a comic book that lacks both the emo-

tional depth and plot complexity that ﬁlms
rely on. If, however, you concede that
the ﬁhn doesn’t want to explore the hu-
man condition and just wants to be fun, it

is worth seeing. Although ‘Spider-Man’
relies on special effects, it is honest,
humble, and funny. It doesn’t take itself
too seriously, and is worth seeing.

    

\WL\\'J \l.(IX\l TOPID. K)\'[E\' 5I’!I)FR-,\H_\J [NI)l:I\’.j!Ili\lI.

PAGE 3

     
 

The guy next door: 3:,‘
Addicted to Instant Messenge

BY_Si.\rLiGRoNE/STAI-r=  r

There are ways to ﬁgure out the collective mood of a society. Historians
do it all of the time.

Some examples would include: “Agriculture Production Statistics Relative to
the Working Class Demographic in Toledo (1940— 1973).” Or studies that examine the
paradigms of child rearing and gender roles, or the number of people a society
decides to ritually set on ﬁre for witchcraft. Stuff like that At Virginia Military Institute,
it’s the Instant Messenger away message that’s an indicator of the collective mood.

The VMI IM culture is a neat anomaly of the infonnation age. The miniature
Internet chat rooms are our primary link to the outside world, since VMI has given us
unlimited high—speed access to the Web from our rooms, but not telephones. It’s like
giving a cold fusion reactor to a kindergarten class, but not crayons.

Many of us are tied to the IM, like an invalid to an iron lung. Instead of the sound
of wheezing and the hissing compressor it’s that god-forsaken door-slarn or the bo-
de—bodoo. (I personally turn the sounds off. It just interrupts my Bachrnan—Tumer
Overdrive MP3s and consequently my air guitar jam. Those people can wait until I’m

V done “rocking out,” so to speak)

So we leave the IIVI on all the time. We do it so our nearest and dearest can still
know what we’re doing at every single waking moment. The away message can tell
them if we’re at our computers or not. The away messages this week reveal our
disdain for exams. Engineers sit around saying, “you know that laser is supposed to
be built by tomorrow, I should probably get started.”

Meanwhile the liberal artists dust off their calculators and ﬁgure out how many
words they have to write a minute to get their 120—page thesis written in two hours.
This stress and anxiety all end up on our computer screens. To take a closer look, let’s
look at some recent away messages of cadets on my buddy list.

“Studying....leave a message and I’ll get back to you when i can [sic]” (This is
pretty standard. This guy is under a little pressure, but coping.)

“Spanish, Chem, Macro...” (This is a cadet who is nrrrning on three hours of
sleep for the week and doesn’t have the energy to type out a full explanation, just a
minimalist scrap of prose, open to interpretation.)

“So yeah..have~ a Spanish oral exam, followed by a drug and alch ecarn
[sic], followed by a macro test. Followed by a history paper due tomorrow.
Happy friggin Wednesday.” (This cadet was obviously cleaning out his desk
when he found his syllabus and his day planner and started hyperventilating
and typing at the same time.) ..

“I have a paper due Firday, a.n article to write, and exams start saturday . . . but I
am watching a movie.” (This cadet has stopped caring, which will last for about 12-

hours until the fear of parents seeing his grades will drive him to a week of papers, .

studying and mainlining caffeine.)
“I ’ in writing 3 papers at the same time. Yeah, I know it’s gangsta.”
(This guy. . .is awesome.)
On the occasion that we do surface for air, the conversations aren’t that cheerful:
Bugluv2040: hi billy.
VMIGuY: Hi Steph.
Bugluv2040: how r.u.?
VMIGuY: Life is a depressing, cold place that wraps us all in the concrete and
mortar shell of despair.
Bugluv2040: uh. . ..so how’s school?
VlV[IGuY: it’s ﬁne...justﬁne...(sigh...). I want my mom.
Reach Sam LaGrone at lagronesr@mail.vmi.edu

CONGRATULATIONS TO
THE MEN’S LACROSSE
TEAM!!!
MORE STEPS AWAY
YOUR HEADS HIGH
‘MATTER WHAT!!!

Midge Thompson (the very proud mother of David “DT”

YOU ARE ONLY 2
. KEEP
NO E

. Very fondly,

;r:a:raz' r;:A§*t”
.33‘ \%€«$S¥.{'ENr,;‘.E£)?4‘ i£i‘l'.Et!:;I<:".f ~ §.§§?£.lbEt3I-(Jet ~ .-528445586

 

u'::"~;'Jl’}‘-f>.?»'v.‘§'1r|';'.'f_z§1’ tjrrtrggéz-.5733 1 , .

’.l..»’K?"-RA - W§L£l§l2iE2§{‘t"§§Lr\-ST - S"i”Ea’~*r‘s“é‘BWFt"r" !§«€Z1l'e§E’§
' l7‘>§I’J§ « ffifﬁﬁﬁhi hlﬂﬂﬁﬂ - M=ClI§(%

   

Thompson ‘96)J

 

THE RlE\EG-~TiEM PIE

MONDAY, MAY 13,2002 ‘

PORTS  

DAVID M CROIV/Eli
SPOKISEDHOR
EMAII;OtoVEiiD@wIDEDq

PAGE 4

Generals cage i way into N AA Semifinals ~

BY DAVID CROWELL AND MICHAEL LEE
sI>OIIIs EDITOR AND SPORTS WRITER

If this weekend is any indication
of things to come, Gettysburg better
watch out for a vengeful Washing-
ton and Lee men’s lacrosse team.

The Generals (14-3) advanced to
the NCAA Division HI Semiﬁnals and
earned the right to play the Bullets
by avenging an early season defeat
at the hands of Washington College
(Md.) on Sunday afternoon.

W&L built a quick 7-4 first quarter
advantage and held on to defeat the

Shoremen, 11-8, in NCAA
Quarterﬁnal action in Chesteitown,
Maryland.

Washington got on the board first
when Steve Berger scored less than
two minutes into the game, but the
Generals tied the score only 23 sec-
onds when junior defender Matt
Strickler scored an unassisted goal.

The game continued in a seesaw fash-
ion, with the two teams trading goals
until the Generals rolled off four goalsin
less than four minutes to take a 6-4 lead.

Senior midfielder John Moore
scored two goals and sophomore at-
tacker Matt Fink tallied three assists
during the run.

MAN OF THE HOUR: junior midﬁelder Rob Brown ﬁres a
shot during the Generals’ 13-8 victory Over Widener College

Sophomore midﬁelder Rich Will-
iams scored the Generals’ seventh goal
of the period with 33 seconds left to
round out the first half scoring.

After Fink opened up the scoring in
the second half, the Shoremen launched
a three-goal run to cut the deﬁcit to 8-7.

The Generals, however, scored three
more times to secure the victory.

Fink scored two goals off two as-
sists from freshman Gavin Molinelli
in the fourth quarter. W&L’s leading
scorer this season ﬁnished with three
goals and three assists on the day.

Women’s tennis moves on

BY DAVID CROWELL
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee women’s tennis team took
the first steps towards competing for the national title this
week, easily disposing of two Capital Athletic Conference
foes, Mary Washington and Salisbury.

The Generals (20-2) also defeated the Eagles and
Seagulls in NCAA South Regional action last season to
earn the right to travel to Trinity (Texas) and compete in
the ﬁnal bracket of eight teams.

Last year,’ however, the Generals lost to Trinity, 7-2, in
the quarterﬁnals. Coach Cinda Rankin hopes there will be
no repeat when her squad plays a little closer to home, at
Sweet Briar College in Lynchburg.

”We are where we need to be. We’ve taken the first two
steps, but the competition becomes much tougher now,”
Rankin said. “I really would like to see us win the next
round and get into the ﬁnal four.

“Once we get to four, anything can happen. We just
need to take it step by step.” _

In reaching the NCAA Quarterﬁnals, the Generals first
sidestepped Mary Washington on Wednesday afternoon,
earning a 9-0 victory. Junior Erika Proko led W&L with a 6-
0, 6-3 victory over Steffany Slaughter at No. 1 singles.

Slaughter had earned the only win for the Eagles on March
23, defeating freshman Lindsay Hageirnan when the South
Regional Rookie of the Year went down with an ankle injury.

Proko also teamed up» with senior Melissa Hatley at
No. 1 doubles to earn an 8-4 victory.

Hagemian, Hatley, sophomore Elizabeth Law, junior
Laura Bruno and senior Manning Willard also earned vic-
tories in their respective singles matches.

Hagerinan and Willard teamed to take an 8-2 victory at
No. 2 doubles while Bruno and senior co—captain Sallie
Gray Strang earned an 8-0 victory at No. 3 doubles.

Thursday afternoon saw more of the same as the Gen-
erals beat up on Salisbury, taking a 9-0 win.

Proko, Hagerman, Hatley and Willard eamed straight
set victories, with Hatley ﬁnishing up an impressive two
days of work by taking home a 6-0, 6-0 victory.

“Hatley’s on fire,” Rankin said simply. “She’s playing
great. She seems very focused and is very determined. I
haven’t seen her play better throughout the season.”

Law and Bruno also showed great resiliency in going
the limit to seize wins. Bruno pulled out a win at No. 5
singles while Law beat Amy Campion 6-4, 3-6, 6-3 at No. 4

A singles to finish the day.

“Our entire team is hanging in there,” Rankin said.
“Salisbury was known to be stronger at the bottom and
the three setters were big. (Law and Bruno) could’ve said
we had already won the meet and not come out to play,

MARI‘ GU\’/ The Ring-rm Phi

ON TO LYNCHBURG: junior Erika Proko hits a backhand during
her No. 1 doubles victory Over MWC on Wednesday afternoon.

but they didn’t.

“That’s important, because’ on the next step, it might
come down to their particular matches.”

The Generals travel to Sweet Briar on Friday afternoon
to begin play against the top teams in the nation. Rankin
hopes the close proximity will help her team gain an intan-
gible edge.

“The location won’t hurt us and I think the players
would love to get a lot of support from the W&L stu-
dents,” she said.

The time for the Generals next match, along with
the Generals’ opponent, will be announced on Mon-
day afternoon.

Moore and sophomore at-
tacker Dustin Martin finished
with two goals apiece.

The Generals reached the
quarterfinal game by defeating
Widener College 13-8 at Wilson
Field on Wednesday afternoon.

Mini (Jim The Rlrzgtu//I P/J2
on Wednesday afternoon. Brown scored three goals and
added two assists in W&L’s return to postseason play.

After a close ﬁrst half, W&L didn’t
disappoint the fans, breaking away
from Widener to take home a 13-8 win. _

The game was spectacular, with
outstanding play by both sides, but
was characterized by a large number
of penalties. W&L was the recipient
of 13 of the 19 penalties.

Coach Mike Cerino dismissed the
number of fouls, however, as a char-
acteristic of Widener’s style of play,
not the referees.

“It’s more a result of the confer-
ence that Widener comes out of,”
Cerino said. “We had a hard time ad-

justing to their style of play.”

Widener opened the game with an
unassisted goal 55 seconds into the
first quarter, but the Generals an-
swered back with a three-goal spurt,
spearheaded by Moore, who scored
once and assisted on another goal.

The Pioneers came charging back
and tied the game at three with 13:41
remaining in the second quarter, but
Moore scored again off an assist from
junior midﬁelder Rob Brown, who later
added a score to give the Generals a
6-4 lead at the half.

W&L entered the second half re-
invigorated, and scored three quick
goals to pad their lead. Widener re-

sponded, but could not overcome

W&L’s defense, scoring only four‘
second—half goals to the Generals’

seven.

Cerino highlighted the play of
Brown, who led the way with three
goals and two assists. A.-

“Rob’s done a workman’s job all
year long. We run a balanced offen-

sive attack, in that it’s not run around
any particular person, but on who’s
got the best matchup,” the Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference Coachgof
the Year said. “Rob was left open a
lot, and he really came through.”

The trip to the semiﬁnals is W&L’s»<
first since 2000, when the Generals lost
to Salisbury State, 10-9, in the semis.

Cerino, who led Division H Lime-
stone to a title in 20()O, refused to look
ahead to national glory when asked
about the team’s chances after
Wednesday’s win.

“I like our bracket and our balance,
but this team has always taken it one 7*‘
game at a time, so right now, we’re
looking to our next hurdle,” he said.

The Generals will play next week-
end at Gettysburg for the opportunity’
to play either Middlebury or Ithaca
for the national title. The time of the
game will be announced this week.

Generals end season with loss to Washington"

BY DAVID CROWELL
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s tennis team ﬁnally
met an obstacle it could not overcome.

The 20th—ranked Generals pulled off a major upset on
Saturday afternoon by defeating 10th-ranked Mary
Washington College, 5-1, in the ﬁrst round of the NCAA

Division III Tournament.

The win also avenged a 4-3 defeat at the hands of the

Eagles on March 27.

The Generals could not keep the momentum,
however, as the sixth-ranked Shoremen of Wash-
ington College (Md.) handed W&L a 4-1 defeat on

Sunday afternoon.

Senior Rhys James led the Generals on Saturday by
winning his singles and doubles matches.

updates

COME OUT and show support
for the women’s tennis team
at the NCAA Tournament
Friday at Sweet Briar College

Visit athlez‘ics.wlu.edu for

FOR RENT

3-bedroom
furnished apartment,
Off—street parking,
5 minutes on foot
from Washington
Hall. $600/ month;
utilities not
included.
One-year lease.
Please call 463-7044
after 5:00 pm

as

Fr'ida_}§May 12?,

 
  
   
 

  

Sti.iiday._ ivliay SEES,

 

    

Doe ’\1?'ats¢_:m

The Old Dominion Athletic Conference Player of tlie

Year defeated Conor Smith 7-6 (6), 6-2, then teamed up
with classmate Andrew Roberts to win 9-7 at No. 1 doubles.

doubles.

Freshman Paul McClure, sophomores Austin Kim and
Graham Nix, and senior Rob Moynihan also won their
respective singles matches. g

In addition, Kim and Nix teamed to win at No.2

On Sunday, the General’s luck ran out. Despite win-

ning the doubles point by taking two of three doubles

matches, W&L could not withstand the onslaught of *

Generals’ season.

 
 

-Lt‘:xi‘ngton.. Virgina

W‘hé.re arrrerrnir:rnr:zz carries fraternity.

Sendai’

   

Ti};  In ().I'I1'iEt11.=t}§1

' Ea'.lpl1 stmiiézy as
The (:§ixiA::.t.t; Mr... Boys

Maw 15’?

,_ Janie {an
Sunday, June. 2., '

Washington’s singles competitors.

James and Roberts wonvat No. 1 doubles and Kim
and Nix also pulled out a doubles win, but the Shoremen
won all four singles matches that ﬁnished to end the

A

W&L finished with a 13-6 record.

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
    
     
    
 

"}:3€1! em...

  

 
  

'.?':3{} pm.

 
 

i vw.t;Eieate ‘i?i’El,i1‘I1€3l(.ll§1.C01I1.

  

9‘

 
   
  
  
  
 
 
    

     
 
   
  
   
    

 
  
  

