X

“i
J

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

NG-TUM

P H1 

The student rain of Wot/iington and Lit’ Uniuriin since 7897 (13 On/ine oi: ,Dhi'.zt//n.eziii

- VoLUIIIECV,N0.V1
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2002

Speculation of police keg crackdown unproven

BY ANDREW LATIMER
NEWS EDITOR

Worries that area law enforce-
ment had in recent weeks begun a
stricter anti-underage drinking policy
have proven unfounded, The Ring-
rum Phi has learned.

Rumors arose last week that pp-
lice cruisers were seen writing down

license plates and taking pictures of
cars parked outside of parties just out-
side of Lexington city limits. Some
speculated that the efforts were to
track purchasers of kegs in order to
determine if alcoholic beverages were
knowingly served to minors.

Virginia customers who buy kegs
of beer from licensed establishments
must sign a contract that indicates where

the alcohol will be transported, as well
as residency infomiation, signature and
vehicle license number of the buyer.
The punishment for serving the
keg’s contents to underage drinkers,
while still a misdemeanor, carries heftier
ﬁnes than the average minor in posses-
sion or drunken in public charges. The
use of kegs at parties on campus prop-

Lexington Police Chief Bruce
Beard, Dean of Students David
Howison, Assoc. Dean of Students
Buddy Atkins and the Rockbridge
Sheriff’s Oﬂice all disregarded any
plans of a concerted plan to track
where kegs go and how they are used.
“We just don’t have the manpower,”
said Dep. Eddie Funkhouser of
Rockbridge County.

“I don’t think we’d go into that
depth until there were recurring prob-
lems in a particular spot,” he contin-
ued. He then added that the presence
high school drinkers would draw more
attention. Regarding college students,
“we’re not parenting them.”

According to the Virginia Attor-
ney General’s Task Force on Drinking
by College Students, then-Attomey

General Mark Earley recommended
that the ABC Board “automate the
registration of kegs in a manner that
would allow real time access by au-
thorized agencies” and work to re-
solve issues with overlapping juris-
dictions, making the possibility of
tracking kegs a real one.

See KI-10$, page 2

erty has been prohibited since the ’80s.

Commons
‘On track

BY KATIE HOWELL
EDITOR IN CHIEF

‘BY THE POWERS INVESTED IN ME’

President
restructures  

administration

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Students should continue to expect

detours and construction noise on cam-
K pus this semester as contractors continue
work on the new University Commons.

“(The construction) is progress-

ing very well,” said Scott Beebe, di-
rector of Washington and Lee
University’s Physical Plant. “We ex-
pect to up ﬁt the Commons over the
summer and anticipate using it in the
fall of next year.”
' Construction on the University
Commons phase of a $43 million build-
ing complex began in the spring of
2001. The other two phases of the
project were renovations to Reid Hall
and Doremus Gymnasium also begun
in 2001. Beebe said the renovations
were complete this summer.

“We don’t anticipate any more
construction on Doremus,” Beebe
said. “We should be ﬁnished with that
portion of the project.”

As construction continues on
the Commons, Beebe said pedestrian
and trafﬁc detours, as well as noises _,,, ,,
Wiii reniain Present on Campus PRESERVING TRADITION, ACCEPTING CHANGE. Thomas G. Burish

“in terms ofineoiwenieneea there (inset) officially began his term as Washington and Lee University’s
Worm be any more Peeking on the 24th president while celebrating the efforts of the Class of 2003
rocks» just the norinai noise of Con’ during Wednesday’s Fall Convocation and Inauguration ceremonies.
striietion this Winters” Beebe said Following the convocation address from the Chancellor Emeritus

Beebe said Contractors h-"We ﬁn‘ of Vanderbilt University, Joesph P. Wyatt, Burish noted the day’s
iished digging 3 hoie Where 3 deiiVerY unique confluence of students, faculty, alumni, trustees and alumni.

nninei Wiii enter beiowthe southeast side He then spelled out his intentions to “continue the trajectory of this
. of the building. He said once a roof is

put on the tunnel, pedestrian detours will ‘

"°”’°“‘°““°”‘“‘°G”‘“‘“'”““°““ Organization to mediate harassment, discrimination

“There is no set schedule yet, but
it should be ﬁnished in a couple of '
QAIFtpromIses to lend a I hognjggg
listening ear to students in need

. months,” Beebe said.
Construction will continue on the

for communicating the new program to the uni-

versity,” said Jan Kauﬁnan, director of

MATTHEW MCDERMOTT
EDITOR IN CIIIEE

University President Tom Burish has reorganized the
top tiers of W&L administration, bringing them in line with
his new vision of Washington and Lee’s priorities.

The most important change was the selection of 
former Acting President Larry Boetsch as the university’s
ﬁrst provost.

“This position was actually be-
ing considered during (former Presi-
dent John Elrod’s) administration,”
Boetsch said. “Nationally, the role of
the president has been changing, re-
quiring more time spent away from
campus.”

As the univeristy’s chief academic
ofﬁce, the Provost limits the number
of people directly reporting to the
president. The deans of all undergradu-
ate and graduate colleges, the deans of students and ad-
missions, and the university librarian, among others, report
to him.

Burish said that he does not yet know what
amount of time on campus his duties, which include
“an especially aggressive travel schedule to pro-
mote the successful completion of the ($225 million
capital) campaign” will allow him.

The position, however, is not intended as a presiden-
tial buffer, Boetch said. “Everyone who needs to will have
access to the president.”

“(The deans) have regular meetings with (Burish), at

BOETSCH

wonderful institution” by achieving a careful balance of change and
tradition. Among the initiatives he discussed, themes of
internationalization, technology, commitment to the liberal arts and
inclusiveness ﬁgured prominently. According to The Rirhmorzd Timer-
Dirpatth, the ceremony, which began at 5:30 on the front lawn, was
attended by roughly 2,000 students, faculty and guests. Also on
hand was interim president, Laurent Boetsch ’69, who will serve as
university provost.—ANDRE\v LATIMER/News Editor

See ADMINISTRATION, page 2

stop for students complaining of sexual mis-
conduct or of any violation of the
University’s anti-discrimination policy.

“Students can talk to CAIR Re-
sources about any discrimination or ha-
rassment, for age, disability, sexual orien-
tation, national origin, religion, andsoon,”
said University Attorney Leanne Shank

CAIR resources can also ad-
vise students who have complaints
about faculty or staff.

Shank advised the committee,
headed by Dean Jeanine Stewart,
that examined the school’s anti-dis-
crimination and sexual misconduct policy.

“Some anonymous student surveys re-
vealed that sexual misconduct was Occurring,
but complainants were not coming forward,”
Shanks said. “There were not enough people
on front end.”

To address these issues, a publicity cam-
paign was launched.

Water shortage spurs restrictions

Washington and Lee abides by Gov. Mark Warner’s statewide conservation ordinance

tion for the SF HB, as go-betweens between com-
plainants and they people being complained
about. We are there to listen to both sides.”

Last academic year, a list ofpotential CAIR
Resources was drawn up, from which informally
polled donn counselors, resident advisors, and
other student leaders chose.

“We didn’t nominate ourselves,” Nichols said.

“We made sure to have the members a cross
section of different divisions’faculty and staff, dif-
ferent genders, different races,” Shank said.

In June, Acting President Larry Boetch
asked them individually to serve.

Boetsch “explained to me why we all
need to make this system work,” said
Murchinson. “He made a persuasive case.”

“We hoped to get six,” said Shank, who
was pleased that ten ultimately accepted.

CAIR resources attended a meeting with
the SFHB, Boetsch and other involved

building throughout the colder

months. “The winter shouldn’t affect

us at all,” he said. “It’s built in solid health promotion.

rock, sorainswon’taffectit, andwe’ll The publicity group de-
signed posters for displaying
CAIR Resources’ faces, informa-

have temporary heat as soon as the
tion sheets for distribution dur-

walls are up.”
Truck activity will soon increase
I on East Denny Circle near the Woods ing matriculation, tear-off sheets
for bathrooms and brochures. All
items will be displayed Monday.

Creek Apartments.
“The construction and deliveries
A CAIR webpage was also cre-
ated, which says that Resources ex-

will need access to the back of the build-

ing and that area,” Beebe said. “We’re
just anticipating increased traffic.” plain the student’s options for informal or for-
The administration still has not mal resolution of their complaints. This can
range from mediating a discussion or apology
to initiating a Student-Faculty Hearing Board

plarmed the University Commons’ inte-

rior. Students should expect dining facili-
hearing or ﬁling charges with local law enforce-
ment. '

ties, student activity offices and lounges.
“We are not advocates,” Nichols said.

The Ring-tum Phi will present
“We serve as people providing infonnal media-

Ten members of the faculty, staff and ad-
ministration are the well-publicized front line of
the new University initiative to resolve discrimi-
nation and harassment cases.

Dubbed Conﬁdential And Impartial Reso-
lution Resources, they are History Secretary
Jennifer Ashworth, Religion Professor Harlan
Beckley, Law Professors Beth Belmont and
Brian Murchison, Director of Leadership De-
velopment Burr Datz, Biology Instructor Teresa
Hanlon, Sociology Professor David Novack,
Associate Dean of Students Courtney Penn,
Admissions Ofﬁcer Dee Richardson, and Ser-
vice Learning Coordinator Kelly Nichols.

These CAIR Resources are now the ﬁrst

NICHOLS
A

an in—depth report on the future of
the Commons in next weeks issue.

See CAIR, page 2

SIGNING UP

PHOTO EYJER BROOI<S/ The Rin,igunmiPbi
PULLING THEIR WEIGHT. Freshmen faces are cropping up in student organization ofﬁces all
over campus, including at the Cahix with senior Katie Frusti (center). Turn-out at the Activities
Fair on Wednesday was high, in part due to its relocation to the freshman-friendly BDG quad.

KATIE HOWELL
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Record water shortages forced Lexing-
ton City Council to approve a local version
of Virginia governor Mark Warner’s Execu-
tive Order 33 Thursday night.

The Executive Orderhas no penalties, but en-
courages local govemments to enforce water con-
servation eﬂrorts throughout affected drought ar-
eas, including Lexington and Rockbridge County.

“We are going to act as employees to
follow the govemor’s guidelines,” Lexington
City Manager Jon Ellestad said.

Warner issued the order August 30 request-
ing local governments throughout most of the

. state to institute water conservation efforts in their

jurisdictions to combat what he called “one of the
most severe droughts in the past 100 years.”
The Executive Order restricts water us-
age by all private citizens and some busi-
nesses. Among the restrictions are no lawn
watering, car washing, golf course watering,

except tees and greens between the hours of
8 p.m. and 8 am. and ﬁlling swimming pools,
except for personal health and safety reasons.
The Executive Order does not restrict com-
mercial car washes or watering athletic ﬁelds
and newly sodded or damaged grass.

“W&L is abiding by the new water
usage restrictions,” Physical Plant Direc-
tor Scott Beebe said.

Beebe said Washington and Lee University
will continue watering its athletic ﬁelds and newly
sodded grass around the construction sites.

“We can’t wash our trucks, and they
need it,” he said. “We also can’t water the
grass around Reid Hall anymore, because the
30-day limit is up.”

The govemor’s restrictions place a 30-
day limit on watering newly sodded grass.

“We want to comply with the govemor,”
Beebe said. “We just don’t know what to do.”

Now that Lexington has approved enforc-
ing the Executive Order, citizens will soon have
more information about handling the drought.

“We’ll be writing letters to all the .citi-
zens, asking them to comply with the restric-
tions,” Ellestad said.

He said the drought restrictions should not
greatly alfect Washington and Lee or its students.

“We don’t think most students wash
their cars at their dorms or apartments, and
the institutions can still water their athletic
ﬁelds,” Ellestad said.

While the drought now causes mild in-
conveniences, Ellestad said, more severe re-
strictions may become necessary in the future.

“This is probably going to get worse be-
fore better,” he said. “Right now the restric-
tions are pretty minimal, but in the future they
may become more strict.’’'

Drought conditions in Virginia are likely
to get worse over the next 90 days, according
to the National Weather Service. Lack of rain
will place greater strain on the already limited
water sources and public water supplies.

“We’re just going to keep trying to fol-
low the govemor’s guidelines,” Ellestad said.

  

 

PAGn 2

Registrar unveils new late drop/ add fees

BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTT
Enrroii IN Clllllt’

Deciding against volunteer work and
late Web Registration times, the Faculty
Executive Committee will encourage con-
scientious registration though increasing
financial penalities.

Introduced this term, schedule
changes will cost $25 after the term’s
first week and before its fourth.

The penalty doubles for changes from
the fourth week until the exam period.

The cost doubles again, to $100, for
changes after the term ’s exams.

“The issue wasn’t really fees, the is-
sue was the work load. and attendant costs
of late drop adds,” University Registrar
Scott Dittman said. Despite daily lntemet
updates, “in recent academic terms, we

have noticed a pattern among students to
assume what they are registered for, rather
than taking personal responsibility and
checking.”

A subcommittee of the Faculty EC
determined the cost of processing a late
drop/add or pass/fail was over $100 per
transaction.

This amount proved consequen-
tial. ln Winter Term l.ast year, 551 of
the 3638 drop/add and pass/fail re-
quests, or 15 percent, were late. Of
those, .136 were in the term‘s fourth
and fifth week. Twelve more were
processed between early January and
mid—March.

“Additional requests for late changes
to winter and earlier terms continued to
ﬂow in through the end of the academic
year,” Dittman said.

The situation also created more work
for the Faculty EC, which is charged with
making exceptions to administrative dead-
lines, such as drop/add, pass/fail, degree
application, and major declarations.

“Most petitions come to us because
students did not take care of drop/add dur-
ing the proper time period,” said committee
member Ted DeLaney, history professor.

These late changes usually result from
carelessness, Dittman explained.

It is “not so much a change ofmind
but a change of record,” he said. “For
example, ‘Oops I forgot that l was reg-
istered for history and was really at-
tending anthropology and didn’t real-
ize it until 1 get that F on my grade
report. ”’

Faculty members are not likely to sym-
pathize with student protest.

‘‘I am stunned by the inability of
some students. . .to understand how,
when, and where to register for, or
alter, their courses each semester,” said
Art Professor George Bent. “These
people are old enough to drive automo-
biles, old enough to vote for elected
officials who make important decisions,
and old enough to serve in the most
technologically advanced military in
human history.

“Why is it that they cannot obtain a
piece of paper, read it, get two signatures,
and turn it in to the appropriate office on
time?”

“The way some students handle
the drop/add responsibility is poor at
best,” agreed DeLaney.” Doing things
on time, or paying a late penalty, is part
of life.”

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2002’
Keg-scouting .
rumors found false

I<r.(;;s_, from page 1

"Virginia State Police, who could not be contacted
before this issue went to press, have jurisdiction in
Rockbridge County, but it had been Dep. Funkhouser’s I
experience that forays into the county were rare and
usually coordinated with local forces, stating “I can’t
imagine they would be doing it.”

Even so. the contract has signifigance. If a partygoer
were to die following excessive consumption of alcohol, the A
purchaser of the keg would be tracked down through his or
her ABC contract and prosecuted.

Dep. Funkhouser, an officer of Rockbridge County
since 1974, has never encountered such a case while on R
duty, but in 2001 at the Univeristy of Minnesota the rugby
team which furnished a keg was implicated in the acci;
dental drowning death of 19-year-old Ken Christiansen.

Know your Traveller stops

' tiéaszm i

 
 

Washnazgten 51 Lee

University 
an . ..
  r

  

    

 

 
 
  
   

 
 

F‘

X‘ ‘A

  
  

1

we-2
am. 39 to tttrglnta I-lone Comm’

810%
W {#363

i.\l.»\[’(II()tIl{il;\'ii or Di-L\?\’ Hmtisr l?\",l’i-l(.ill.)llll...\’l‘R i‘ll<)=.\’1'h' ;-\x=r)rti-.\r'liiiriin-it/'il7rRz}gi;r:mPlii 3

BY ANDREW Lmusit V
;’\’=i'~:\i=*s EDITOR

Washington and Lee University’s revamped
sober driving system, Traveller, will undergo its first
full week of operations starting today, marking the
second term the service has been in operation.

The program, developed. by Generals Advocating
Sober Driving (GASD) as a replacement for Live Drive,
will run seven days aweek from 10 p.m. until 2 am., two
hours shorter than the spring term schedule. Live Drive
transported students three days per week.

Also changed is the pool of drivers, which will
primarily consist of athletic staff members driving

school-owned vans. Students will still be employed,
but on a lesser scale. Additionally, a new and ex-
panded route map that will reach 75 percent of tini-
versity students was introduced for the fall.

Dean of Students David Howison, an integral
player in the launch of Traveller last spring, stated that
lessons were learned from last spring. and the scope of
the system will become more focused with each pass-
ing month. The one constant will be emphasis on the
theme of taking individual responsibility.

Effective today, Dan Gratton ’97 will head up Trav-
eller and coordinate its efforts. As a former student, he
will use his knowledge of Lexington and its environs
to the program ’s advantage, as Howison pointed out.

To determine whether or not the design is a 
members of Traveller must analyze usage numbers, the
attitude of those who use the vans, and the efﬁciency of
the dispatchers and volunteer student system.

According to Howison, there are numerous
protocols in place, regarding everything from
what to do if a passenger falls ill to whom to call
if local police pull a program driver over. If an
accident occurs, drivers are supposed to be cov-
ered by the university’s comprehensive liability
insurance policy. ,

The school hasn’t gauged community reac-
tion to Traveller, but l-lowison relayed that Lexing-
ton Police Chief Bruce Beard approved of the plan.

Traveller Station Key, as of September 2002

1. Parking Garage Level 4 (Top)
2. Baker-Davis-Gilliam Quad

3. international House (Deli
Center) on Lee Avenue

4. Grace Presbyterian Church
on Main Street

5. Lee Chapel Parking Lot

6. Davidson Park

7.Corner of Lexington/Jefferson

Florist

8. Windfall/Winding Way on
Green House Road r
9. Pole Houses on Furrs Mill
Road

10. Woods Creek Apartments

11. Law School Parking Let

U

CAIR: about discrimination

“The CAIR Resources did

 

C/till, from page 1

university administrators.

“We’ve just started,” Nichols
said. CAIR resources will soon
spend a full day in mediation train-
ing. There are plans for regular
meetings in the months ahead.

Among the topics discussed are
available counseling and health care
and how to work the pre-existing Des,-
ignated Officers for harassment and
discrimination.

receive some legal orientation,
but for the most part we re-
ceived information about the
process itself and the role we
are expected to play,"
Murchison said.

For further information,
consult the University Policy
on Prohibited Discrimination at

http://campuslife.w1u.edu/ .

freshmen, or call the CAIR. lnfo
Line at 540-458-5800.

Al)Mli\£ lS’l'.R.»\"I"lO.N, from page 1

least once a month,” said Dean of Stu-
dents David Howison. “l have found
that (Burish) is always willing to talk
to me about important issues.”

University Counsel Leanne
Shank, Secretary to the Board of
Trustees Jim Farrar and Director of
Athletics Michael Walsh still report
directly to the president.

One of the provost’s new powers
is his role i.n advising the president on

— SKYDIV 3]

DOUBLE STUDENT DISCOUNT-

Tako $30 offtho regular ﬂrotjump
price with this ad until May 2003!

Complete information is on: WW. 5 k

Easy one Day First Jumps! Freefali almost a minute from over '2»-112 Miles High!

  

1 (877) 348-3759

ydiveorange.com

(540) 943-8587 or

(877) DIVE-SKY

- Best Aircraft

Others claim to use it, but we use the official USPA training program to the fullest since it was
developed hero at Skydive Orange for the United States Parachute Association.

- our equipment-

Comparo our equipment to other Drop Zono'o- our parachutes are 100% equipped with state of the art
CYPRES Automatic Activation back up devices, others use cheaper ones to save money.

- We have the experience! -

No other Virginia Drop Zone routinely puts up over 300 jumps most Saturdays, sometimes over 400
lumps in day. We are doing over 17,000 Jumps iyoar hora at Virginia's skydiving cantor, Skydive Orange.

Fastest growing skydiving center on the East coast because:

our Twin Engine Turbine Aircraft safely carries 22 Jumpers over 13,000’
- Most complete Instructional program-

academie budgets. Boetsch will review
the annual requests of the College. the
Commerce School and the Law School,
and will recommend priorities.

“The role of the provost is to see
university-wide needs that individual
departments, quite rightly, do not fo-
cus on,” Burish said. “(Boetsch) has
unparalleled experience at all levels of
the school’s administration.”

Other new positions include
the vice president for administra-
tion. a position currently without a

Administration adds provost

permanent occupant, will direct
nonacademic matters, such as the
physical plant and university book-
store. The dean of the college will
no longer oversee university sup-
port services.

The directorship of institu-
tional research, which Registrar
Scott Dittman has assumed, is
similarly new. its responsibility
is the compilation of statistics for
the analysis of administrative
functions.

L If-.\’.l.\l (}'.l'()I\'

5./a urr.u’.u_1r/ ( >'nn§/mv/fry

FRESH EACH MORNING

lilllclt out ‘
Jnnlllmtsrinln

Great photos from all over the ‘l
World, even Lexington, VA.

We’ll takepcornmissions.

All"di§iEal production. "

Museutrrquality prints. ' 6

WWW.JEBBFlOOKS.COM 540-458-5183

ESPRESSO ' CAPPUCCINO ' FRESH ROASTED COFFEES * FINE TEAS

9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET It LEXINGTON * 464-6586 .

J. 3: 1...‘, .¢i=.s’:=~..~'..'v lama .. 1 

r..a'.- u;=;.;¢s‘s.'.2s~;vi;a‘:i..;s.éiltetsei s..~;..':<ii.i‘~ai'u'.  z.~;.a..r.;.».%<ar-»>-tear" '

 

 

’ MONDAY, srmnmai 9,2002

« Sgl§hml3l3ii)liDITORlAL

Sober the press releases
1 on the Washington and Lee Web page

New president Thomas Burish faces many
complex challenges, so he must welcome the oc-
casional quick ﬁx. For the problem of our Internet

V “news releases,” the Phi offers a simple solution:
ﬁnd a new writer.
The outside world can no longer ﬁnd press
releases on our web page, such as Mar. l’s ﬁne
.Il

“W&L Dean of Student announces retirement.”
Rather, it discovers throaty little dispatches that
sound like Lifetime miniseries (“W&L Surmner
Side: No Calm Before Fall’s Storm”).

l‘ The prose style is no better. Consider the
release “President Burish: Man of Action with
Scientist’s Approach,” in which we are treated
to: “Rushing to an appointment, Tom Burish paused
! at a student-led tour of Washington and Lee. The
visibly curious guide fell silent. Sweaty tourists
gaped.”

“Sweaty tourists gaped.” This tawdry little
at tableaux sounds like a junior high feature story,
not a press release from a nationally renowned
university. If this new narrative style is an at-
tempt to add color, it has succeeded. But at what
;. cost—lurid paint is not better than just the facts,
ma’am.

Further problems arise when the overeager
prose leads to careless writing. In the same piece
, we read about “relentless days.” There can be a
relentless series of days, or days with a relentless
series of events. Sober, factual prose, however,
avoids sloppy personalization.

It also avoids cute phrases like Burish’s “first

presidency.”
This is not to deny that the news releases con-
tain interesting material. In the aforementioned
‘ “lVIan of Action” piece, a nice bit is found on the

president’s assessment of hiring faculty. But items
like this are tadpoles in a whale, and few are willing
to cut through the blubber to ﬁnd them.

And let’s not overstate the case. The works
‘‘ are not lurid, merely lame. They are not malicious,
merely inept. But press releases from W&L should
not be oﬂ°—putting, and these are. Case in point is
the stream of ham ﬁsted presidential encomium.
it We read: “Burish isn’t deterred in facing tough is-
sues at an institution that sometimes has been slow
in addressing them” and “Burish is not a man for
rhetoric but action.” Let us not forget, however,
g that “neither is he irnpetuous . . 

Burish is widely known for his modesty, and
for his desire to improve the school’s image. Both
qualities will be evident if he can ﬁnd a more ca-

x
UOTE OF THE WEEK:
A
I WOULD REALLY REALLY LIKE TO
HAVE A MAO TsE DONG WATCH
3‘

. . .1 THINK IT IS THE COOLEST

THING IN THE \X/ORLD.l
:ANONYMOUS PHOTO EDITOR, .\PPI.YlN(} ’l'() ;\\I
ﬂ EXILED FORMER OPINIONS EDITOR

Editors in chief Katie J. Howell
Matthew B. McDermott
AndrewA. Latimer
Irnran Naeemullah
Catherine C. Guy
Jeremy Franklin

Dave Crowell

 

News Editor
Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Sports Editor
Asst. Sports Editor
Photo Editor Jeb Brooks
Photographers Meg Ferrara
gt. MaryGuy
Business Manager Paul Seifert
Asst. Business Manager Thomas Worthy
Circulation Director HenryGrimball

J‘...

F The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editors in chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

F The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
’ tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington. Virginia 24450
Street Address: 3} Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phz'@wlu.edu
http://phi. w1u.edu

Annual Subscription Rate: $30

ter.: .ihr<<;-uiri PHI.

PINIONS - A

Iraq is ‘cruising for a bruising’

The United States has no choice
but to attack Iraq and remove Saddam
Hussein from power, while at the same
time destroying his country’s nuclear,
biological, and chemical capabilities. De-
spite the ever present whines of the
doves, such as “we have no evidence
Saddam was involved in 9/ l 1,’ ‘The Eu-
ropeans don’t approve’, ‘He hasn’t done
anything to us recently’, or, my personal
favorite, ‘He’ll use chemical weapons
and kills thousands of US troops,’ we
must invade.

First oﬂ°, Abu Nidal, the infamous Pal-
estinian terrorist found shot four times in
Baghdad, and declared dead by his own
hand by Hussein’s police, was killed be-
cause he refused to train al Qaeda mem-
bers in the terrorist camps in Iraq’s deserts.
Iraqi agents met with one or more of the 9/

l l hijackers. While both these facts tend
to suggest that Hussein was at least aware
of the planned attacks on the World Trade
Center, they are irrelevant to the argument
over whether to invade

  

  

IIVIRANNAEEMUIIAH
OPINIONS Eonorr
E\IAll:NAEElvlUIIAllI@WlllEDIl

ject are akin toNeville Chamberlain, war1t-
ingpeace atthecostof

Iraq. V  _, A   appeasing a dictator.

Second, the Euro- BEMUSED BYSTANDER Appeasement is
peans have emasculated " ‘ equivalentto surrender,
their armed forces to the   so let’s leam ﬁom 1939
point that they are no and attackﬁrst.

longer players on the military stage, while
at the same time clouding the issue of haq
with their rampant anti-Sernitism and sym-
pathy for the plight of the Palestinians,
mean while banlqolling the conupt, tenor-
ist-ridden PalestinianAuthority. Whocares
what they think? Tony Blair will be withus,
and let’s face it, this will be an American
SllOW anyhow.

Also, Saddam lIusseinhasmostdeﬁ-
nitely been workingtoacquirerIuclearweap-
ons, according to highly placed defectors,
and in tact may have a few small devices
now. What more reason do we need to
attack‘? Those who prevaricate on the sub-

Finally, we know he has chemical
weapons, and since we’llbe comingto get
him personally this time, not just ldclcing
him out ofKuwait, he has no reason notto
deploy them. On a technical level, how-
ever, his devices for delivering these weap-
onsare lirnitedto afewrockets andartillery
shells. Wewill lose mento chemical weap-
ons, but the salient question is: do we
want to lose thousands on the battle ﬁeld
to eliminate the threat, or tens of thousands
when Hussein’s terrorist errand boys light
off a low yield nuke in two orthree cities, or
nerve gas in crowded urban areas?

The answer to the problem is the in-

 

PI>lO'lOCOUKlBYOF WWW.6DOG_ECQM
PREPARED FOR WAR. U.S. ﬁghters on deck, ready to attack when called upon.

vasion of Iraq and the deposition of
Saddam Hussein Or, we could just wait
until the next, catastrophic attack on inno-
cent Americans and wonder why no one
acted to prevent it
Luclcilyforus,eventhosewhoarededi-
cateddeniersofreality(l1keliberals),theBush
Administratior1ag,reeswithme,andwewi1l
be attacking. We’ve already rented the

iﬁeighterstobringourheavya1moredve-

hicles into the region, and Secretary Powell
has already begun the diplomatic oifmsive
sothatwe canclairnwe hadno choioebutto
attack Iraq for non-cornpliarrce with the
points of the original UN resolutions. The
mair1reasonwehaven’talreadyinvadedis
ﬂratlraqismostiyhotdesemwhichrmkes it
hardontroops inchemical protection suits.
We’re waiting forthe winter so our soldiers
won’t pass out in their suits.

Ihope Saddamenjoyshislastfallas
dictator of Iraq.

Let’s give peace chance in Iraq

It’s that time again, folks. As the current Presidential
administration pushes for yet another conﬂict with Iraq, the
time has come to consider the merits of the argument for war.

The primary reason President Bush gives us for an inva-
sion is to depose Saddam Hussein, whom Bush believes
“desires weapons of mass destruction,” has “poisoned his

’ ovm people,” “hates freedom,” and has otherwise become

someone whom the President would not invite to the White
House even if he was a major campaign donor.

Though the administration lacks much solid evidence
that Iraq possesses or is developing nuclear,
biological, or chemical weapons#when __
told that Iraq had denied developing such 3. _
weapons, Secretary of Defense Donald . A
Rumsfeld responded simply: ‘“They’re ly- ~
ing- -—I do not ﬁnd it at all difﬁcult to believe, proof or not, that
Hussein is, in fact, attempting to develop these sorts of weap-
ons. President Bush has a reasonable and legitimate concern
in this area, so it seems reasonable to take military actions to
prevent it.

Additionally, Iraq is part of the now-

 
   

’ MtiDEi;li¥s’s‘‘‘Miisin’t;s
  _C;iL.EY_l_lilx\;1??*_RS9N;‘Q6

the U.S. just wants cheaper oil from a friendlier Iraq), or for no
reason. If a nation’s government has violated its trust, it is up
to either the people of the country, or the global community,
to change something. While America is a world leader, we are
not authorized to make decisions about Iraq or any other
country on behalf of the world.

Therefore, it is absolutely critical that we en-
sure that we havelthe support of our allies and partners
before embarking on any mission of “righteous anger”
justiﬁed militarism. Note, for example, our campaign in
Afghanistan. World consensus was that
we had every right to conduct military
actions against a government that was
1- oppressive and 2- directly threaten-
ing the lives of American citizens, as well
as the world in general.

When it comes to Iraq, however, the sureties are
not so sure. The evidence is not yet solid enough to
convince many that an invasion is justiﬁed. Therefore,

what’s required is more ha'rd evi-
dence. Although the government

infamous “Axis of Evil,” countries that
sanction terrorism, proliferate weapons of
mass destruction, and the like. There is
no doubt that there are many potential
Iraqi terrorists, but it’s important to remem-
ber that Iran and Saudi Arabia are also, to
some extent, countries that harbor poten-
tial terrorists and that may or may not ac-
tually fund terrorism. Overall, although
Iraq is populated with many irmocent ci-
vilians, there are enough ‘militant-minded
individuals to conﬁrm the administration
claim that Iraq is a terrorist factory.

The problem is global support. '
Most countries do not support an
American (or potential coalition) in-
vasion of Iraq. For this reason, and
for this reason alone, we should not
attempt an invasion at this time. President Bush al-
ready has a reputation for breaking treaties that have
been signed in previous administrations, and as a re-
sult ofthis, plus over 100 years of general expansion-
ism and our status as a superpower, we have grown to
be resented in many nations that we consider allies,
nations such as Great Britain and France.

Simply put, the trust and cooperation of these allies is
invaluable. We live in an age where major one-nation military
attacks are reprehensible in the global community. We, re-
grettably, as Americans, can not go around invading what-
ever countries we please, whether we claim to be doing so for
just reasons, for unjust reasons (many simply believe that

“Lots of water.”

-A.SHl.El(}H OVERLY ‘06

 

oIo<oLirIisr<)I~ ttwzacow

“Domino’s Piua.”

-LARRY HINOJOSA, Lexingtonian

points to Iraq’s refusal to allow U.N.
weapons inspectors in as evidence,
we should not presume that the glo-
bal equivalent of taking the 5"‘ Amend-
ment should make us presume guilt.
There are other ways of knowing what
a nation is doing without sending in
U.N. inspectors.

What I’d really like to see is the CIA
doing some inside work on Iraq. Ifﬂrey fail
to come back with anything convincing,
then we’re presumably ok Butif they come
back with hard evidence that Iraq is devel-
oping its capability to become a worldwide
menace, then we can present that evidence
to the world as justiﬁcation for another coa-
lition eﬂ°ort.

We cannot aﬂbrd to further alienate
ﬁiendly countries. America does not have, nor should it have,
sovereignty over the world. If we pursued the worst-case
scenario, we’d have the U. S. invading Iraq against world popu-
lar opinion. In that case, it is likely that the U.N. would de-
nounce the U.S. formilitarism and  Thiswouldruin
American diplomacy eﬁbrts in many, many countries, and
would result in hostile relationships with a majority of the
world’s nations.

Clearly, we can’t afford to act simply on our own volition.
While President Bush may have a strong enough case against
Iraq for his cabinet, he’l1 need to come up with a stronger one
in order to convince the American people, as well as the world
in general.

‘I don’t get hungover,
but I hear Midol wor .” -0
-JOHN GAFFNEY ‘06

“Not drinking, except I drink

all the time.”
-KHADY MBAYE ‘05

PAGE 3

‘American Idol’
provides
opportunity to veg

Has Amen'ca really just handed out the title
to a 20-year-old who can cany a tune?

With all the Sex in the City I watched this sum-
mer, I thought that it would be easier to conjure up
something to write about for my inaugural 2002-
2003 school year Phi article. I guess living in New
York with attrac-
tive people and
entertaining
g l a m o r o u s
lifestyles and ca-
reers garners
more fodder than
the trials and
tribulations of the
college senior
who divides her
time equally be-
tween the co-op
and watching
American Idol. (By the way, those percentages are
going to have to be somewhat altered now that my
Tuesday and Wednesday nights will not be devoted
to the ongoing struggle between the self and the
psyche, between Justin and Kelly.)

For anyone who did things other than subscrib-
ing to the media frenzy of yet another quasi-reality
TV show (activi-
ties included,
but not limited
to, making bolo-
gna sandwiches,
playing with
magnetic poetry, or ceramics), American Idol docu-
mented the plights of wanna-be pop stars, each
week voting someone off the island (stage).

Actually, the elimination process was a lot more
complicated than “the tribe has spoken,” punctu-
ated by harsh criticisms from three judges with ques-
tionable backgrounds in the music industry, for ex-
ample, Paula Abdul.

So after about three months of dueling vocal
performances, the ﬁnal two contestants, Kelly and
Justin, became adoles-
cent icons, making ap-
pearances on TRL
(Total Request Live,
of the MTV persua-
sion) and acting as
presenters at the Video
Music Awards (VMA,
similar sounding but,
very different to VMI).

The entire thing
is blatantly ridiculous,.
albeit a painful re-C,
minder of my hypocrisy since I revolved my sched-,.
ule around watching Kelly be all Texas and cute,;
and Justin have eye sex with 15 year old girls, hav-
ing made interesting apparel decisions. I

I don’t know what was more absurd: me and
my roommates’ borderline obsessive devotion to
the show, or the actual premise. The winner (Kelly)
gets a record contract, but I think there should bei
more of an incentive becauseeven contestants whd
didn’t make it into the top 2 have already signed
with labels. Like maybe throw middle square in Hol-3
lywood Squares or Super Nintendo games into the
prize pot. Has America really just handed out the
title “American Idol” to a 20-year-old who can carry
a tune? "

Although admittedly a card-carrying member’
of the Kelly fan club, I find it a little strange that!
she’s singing at the 9/11 Memorial at Lincoln Cen-5
ter. Or that her victory landed a spot on the front’
page of the paper. Could the term ‘American Idol"
perhaps be a little excessive? Granted, the show:
was more addictive than a Real World marathon’
(last MTV reference, I swear), but now I feel like I’
have to watch CNN for like 83 straight hours to
regain a sense of perspective. The whole concept;
of an American Idol is unduly odd. It’s kind of like;
Miss Universe pageants (which I never understood}
because it’s not like there are representatives from“
Pluto or Mercury there, or even Jupiter for that mat-g
ter.) "

That’s a lot of pressure and responsibility to
bestow upon one person. Like whoever wins the
gold in the 100 meter dash in the Olympics and.
gets to be ‘The Fastest Person in the World.’ Now
Kelly is the god of our idolatry. Some weird people‘.
get to rank in America’s catalogue of role mod-
els.

    

t’

Y LARRSON

   

 0lITHERNER’S Expdsiiiiii
Kinsljcgini ‘03

  

 

 

“Tissues.”

-WILL LEWIS ‘06

 

 

  

PAGE 4

 

 

China has long road to freedom

China is a land of opposites. While it has experienced
great liberalization over the past two decades, so much so it
will host the world at the 2008 Olympics, in many ways, things
have hardly changed from the time of Mao’s reign.

When I ﬁrst arrived, the program directress informed
me, much to my chagrin, that National Day, the celebration of
the People’s Republic’s founding held each
October, is no longer marked by military pa-

ity to publicly discuss their beliefs or go to an unofﬁcial
church. The repression reaches much further than the oft-
reported Falun Gong. In fact, there are only ﬁve legal houses
of worship in the nation, one each of the Protestant, Catho-
lic, Buddhist, Muslim and Taoist varieties. All other sects
and beliefs are illegal “cults.”

Moreover, each of these churches has

*‘”"' ‘—‘“‘ I been organized by the Communist Party and
rades and reviews through Tiananmen LIVE FROM CHINA is still administered by the government. All
Square, but I may notice that the parks have BRET1"  KIRWAN ‘O4 churches and temples are registered with the

been decorated. “What good is a commu-

nist country if one car1’t see the mobile missile platfomrs roll
down Main Street?” I asked. “China hasn’t been communist
for a long time,” she responded.

She was only half right. The economy is now largely
free from its communist past
and shops, stalls, markets, and
stores openly competing for
my business crowd the tree-
lined avenues. Freedom has
come to marketplace so much
that you can drink Pabst Blue
Ribbon and dance to the
techno remix of Country Roads
at the J] Disco. Downtown,
Modern Plaza and Friendship
Plaza, two of Beij ir1g’s new de-
partment stores, stare at one
another with six-story glass
ﬁonts no diﬁerent from Nieman
Marcus and Nordstrom back
home. Only the largest and
heaviest industries are still
government controlled and
Beijing is eager to reform these
white elephants that put a great
strain on the rest of the
economy.

However, like brown dust ﬁom the Gobi Desert that blan-
kets Beijing, communism still touches every aspect of Chi-
nese life. China has only half recovered from communism
because, like every other manifestation of the poisonous
ideology, the Chinese version quickly came to mean repres-
sion and abuse. Perhaps the terminology has become a bit
muddled since Marx ﬁrst dreamt of utopia, but the result of
every human attempt at “to each according to his needs” has
been an authoritarian regime that irnprisons and kills its own
people in an ultimately vain quest to retain power.

For example, the Intemet represents a terrible threat to
the communist regime because the Chinese are now free to
read virtually anything without government censorship. Nev-
ertheless, the government has blocked access to many
websites, most recently and notably, the Google search en-
gine. In fact, many other students here are unable to contact
their schools’ webmail sites. Most ﬁustratingly, news stories
linked through Yahoo! are blocked seemingly at random.

The worst abuses of the people, though, are those vis-
ited on the spiritually questing Chinese who have the temer-

 

Bnoor) ON THEIR HANDS. The brave protester at e
Tiananmen Square Massacre in 1989. The tanks did not stop.

government, all publications, including
Bibles, must be state-approved, Communist Party members
are forbidden to believe, and the government religious over-
seers, who must be atheist, decide which views may be es-
poused and which are “heretical.”

Additionally, every indi-
vidual believer must register
with the government and no
outside body may exert any
authority over the ofﬁcial
churches in China. As such,
the “Catholic” churches in
China are no more Catholic
than Lutherans or the Church
of England because ofﬁcial
Chinese “Catholics” are for-
bidden from obeying the
Pope. As such, true Roman
Catholics must worship in se-
cret and truly Roman Catholic
churches are underground.

The government isn’t

bashﬁrl about enforcing these
policies, either. InApril 1996,
5,000 troops were mustered to
the village of Dong Lu in
HeBei province to prevent a
Catholic pilgrimage and destroy a Marian shrine. In July,
three priests were sentenced to three years in the Chinese
gulag for “disturbing the peace of society?’ and being mem-
bers of a subversive “cult.”

The Cardinal Kung Foundation, which works to re-
turn Roman Catholicism to China, reports that at least one
priest has been murdered recently and currently, 12 bish-
ops and 17 priests are imprisoned, and two bishops and
seven priests have simply disappeared, all for their reli-
gious beliefs.

Of course, this is all in addition to the persecution of
Tibet, which the communists have occupied for nearly 50
years and where, as Amnesty International reports, one
out of every six prisoners is a Buddhist monk or nun.

China never experienced the religious wars the West
and the Middle East did because it had never been a par-
ticularly religious country. But now that religion is on the
verge of blossoming, the government has created religious
strife by demonstrating that, although China is now blessed
with economic freedom, freedom of conscience and asso-
ciation are still denied.

1 coumsvor '1(;O0(\1
arnous

    

ALL THE FUN & ALL THE PROTECT IONS
AMERICAN EXPRESS WORLDWIDE

OR CA$H STARTING WITH FIRST BOOKING
YOU SELL — WE COLLECT PAYMENTS

SELL SPRING BREAK TRIPS

GUARANTEED BEST BUY
1 FREE TRIPFOR EVERY l0 PAID

WORLD CLASS VACMIONS
1 —800-222-4432

Why just read this blank box
when your ad could be here.
Phi advertising works. Just do
it,x4060.

"Ii M00”-IIHS

Mondays 1:15:05
Washington 3IIl"ﬂﬁ9I'SOII
Be there.

Call Us For Our 5 Foot Italian Sub!!! ‘
Available In Vegetarian Or Meat
With Your Choice Of Ingredients:
Fresh Mozzerélla
Provolone
Cheddar Cheese

Prosciutto

Capicolla

Soppressata
Salami
Ham
Mortadella
Turkey
Grilled Zucchini
Roasted Red Peppers
Marinated Mushrooms
Marinated Artichoke
Red Onion
Lettuce Tomato
Our Own Pesto Spread or Mayo
*One Week Notice is Needed For All Sub Orders

 

Let Us Cater Your Next Fraternity Party Or Tailgate
On Our Premises Or At The Location Of Your Choice
With A Customized Menu To Fit YourBudget!

Serving Sunday Brunch Buffet From 11:30-2:30 All You Can Eat: $9.95
Call us at 540-464-5500

 Banquet Facilities On Premises Up To 200 People

. Dinner Entrees for Small and Large Groups:
Veggi Lasagna
Half Tray (serves 8-10) $29.95
Full Tray (serves 18-20) $55.95
Baked Ziti
Half Tray (serves 8-10) $25.95
Full Tray (serves 18-20) $45.95
Eggplant Parrnigiana
Half Tray (serves 8-10) $29.95
Full Tray (serves 18-20) $55.95
Sausage Pepper
Half Tray (serves 8-10) $31.95
Full Tray (serves 18-20) $59.95
Salad
Half Tray (serves 8-10) $14.95
Full Tray (serves 18-20) $27.95
Penne Vodka
Half Tray (serves 8-10) $25.95
Full Tray (serves 18-20) $45.95

Are pink shorts cool? Only if you’re a gent V  

As ajuniorhailing ﬁomthe great
state of Massachusetts, 1 have made
many an observation over the years
concerning the southern behavior here
atWashingt0n andLee. W&L, aschool
rife with geographically enhanced tra-
ditions, may give incoming Yankee
freshrnen a slight culture shock after
they arrive in Lex Vegas. To help north-
ern ﬁeshmen assimilate, I have com-
posed a list of things I have noticed
which may prove helpful to those L.L.
Bean carpetbaggers new to the South.

1. “Hotin Here. ” To the typi-
cal Yank, the rmairconditioned Graham-
LeesandBDGdonnsmayseemas
sweltering as the video for the summer-
time Nelly classic. To battle this heat, I
advise northern newcomers to trek to
Wal-Martsoﬂreycaninvestinatur’oo-
fan Also, leave wool sweaters weigh-
ingmorethatthe D-hall fro-yomachine
at home, since the only blizzards seen
inBigLexaresoldatthelocalDairy
Queen.

2. “Dude LooksLikeaLady ”

You know those multi-plaid shorts in the
men’s section of J . Crew? W&L males not
only buy them in bulk, but also wear them
in public. Also, large herds of guys can be

    

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2002

Ludacris for your MP3 ’s.

4. “The Fast and the Furious.”
Down South, the atmosphere is much more
relaxed. This is a good thing. People take

seen roaming the Hill in pastel hues that theirtirneirrspealcingandwalkingﬁornplaoe
wouldmakeﬂ1emostcolorﬁ1lofEastereggs to place. So if you are on the Colonnade,
jealous. However, tlresevrbrantdiﬁerenoes trying to book it to class at mach speed,
are a welcome change think again, since your
from the ubiquitous ' ;  2-, colleaguesﬁomwarmer
baggy jeans and back- :   MY NORTH FACE climatesrnaybebelrind
wards Red Sox cap en- 2 I I  _7 you. Save your rapid

   

semble seen in Boston.
Also, who canﬁndrnajor ﬁrultwitlraboy
in a pink button-down if he is chivalrous
enough to hold the door open for you?
3. “Gone Country. ” Cour1t1ymu-
sic is pretty popular south of the Mason-
Dixon. Give it a chance, since you might
enjoy it (try Texas—based Pat Green and
Cory Morrow) even if it will give your
ﬁiends back home something to tease you
about relentlessly. If you ﬁnd you are more
Destiny’s Child than Dixie Chicks, yet you
want to appear musically savvy, compro-
mise with the quintessential college musi-
cian, Dave Matthews, and leave the

walking pace for the
new ﬁtness center, and understand that
when you are blurring out the latest story
to your southern roommate, they may be
left in the verbal Yankee dust of "This one
time,ataparty. . .”

5. “BBQStain. ”WhereI’mfrom,‘

a barbeque consists of hamburgers, hot
dogs, and chips. Here, southern students
deﬁne barbeque as pulled pork on rolls. If
you are the ‘when-in-Rome’ type, enjoy
and know that you have my undying re-
spect Ifyou are apickyYankee, follow my
advice: smile, nod, then drive to Wendy’s
forsomeBiggieﬁies. . ..!

Not just left or right, but up or down

It is no secret that the students of Washington and
Lee University are politically minded, but often the con-
structive debate often stops after the first question: “Are
you a Republican?” If the answer is no, this usually
results in a situation where this person is labeled a Demo-
crat or worse.

This “one or the other” view, reinforced by our un-
fairly govemment-endorsed “two party system”, closes
the door to third party options. Students must realize
that there is not just a
pendulum that swings
left and right; some-
times, it sits in the
middle or even goes
up and down. Moreover, it is possible for people to have
different deﬁnitions of “conservative.” Too often the
deﬁnition of “conservative” is “Republican” while “lib-
eral” translates as “Democrat.”

W&L Republicans, in particular and unfortu-
nately, like to translate the statement, “I voted for Gore,”
as “I voted to kill babies.” The same problem occurs
with the Democrats who assume that because someone
voted for President Bush, this person also supports his
decision to shut down clinics providing free medical
care to the needy in foreign countries.

This isn’t why the people who voted for Bush and
Gore chose their particular candidate. The Democrats
may have said that they believe in a woman’s right to

FREE THOUGHTS
 

 

choose more strongly than they disagree with his envi-
ronmental vigilance, and the Republicans may have said
that lower taxes were most important to them. Most of us
decide how to cast our votes by prioritizing the things
that are most important to us; those who choose to vote
because they like neither candidate are overly idealist or
uninformed about third party candidates.

Such ignorance is dangerous and constricts the ﬂow
of thought in a free society. Third parties are crucial to
stimulating the political arena; unfortunately, the only
recent success a third party candidate has had at the.

1

presidential level was H. Ross Perot in 1992, with almost ‘

20 percent of the popular vote.

I would like to introduce students to the ideas of the
Libertarian Party. This party is characterized as being in
favor of self—deterrnination, both personally and economi-
cally. You may interpret this to mean that we are socially
liberal while ﬁscally conservative. It is quite possible
that many Washington & Lee students are Libertarian
without knowing it. Republicans who are pro-choice,
feminists who support President Bush’s agenda, and all

students who believe in more relaxed drug and alcohol I

laws, while considering themselves as centrists maybe
better off voting Libertarian than Republican as they have
done in the past. I encourage the W&L student body to
further explore Libertarian ideas. Perhaps then we will
foster a truly constructive political debate and see some
new ideas emerge.

sf‘‘‘’’‘’”'?”
{3}

We
«st M

W»-
§<m»\\\z4////ac».
6”“ 3
xi:

, ‘K
‘cg at

Athe week

linitiate new friendships.

4

it

I

 

tar li.l}{C.}~~”t”i..'Ei‘i P


PAGE 5

RTS

«Fresh ‘Play Fair’ at Ruins

.‘ BY MCQUEEN CALVERT
sriii? intiitii

Freshman Orientation Week has
always included trips to Lee Chapel,
‘placement tests, advisor meetings,
and several picnics. This year’s new
freshman class, however,
participated in a new event during
in addition to the
traditional and annual orientation
week activities.
This year, the Freshman
Orientation Committee, headed by

‘junior Kathryn Drinkard and senior

Berdine Edgar, searched for an
innovative activity for the new
students which would help to
Their
answer came in the form of what is
refered to as an ‘Ultimate
Icebreaker. ’

The Ultimate Icebreaker is a
program run by an entertainment
service known as Playfair. As a
team-building experience and a
powerful program for campus unity

i-rand school spirit, Playfair is more

than just a way for new students to
become acquainted.

This popular campus
attraction is used during

‘orientation week at colleges and

universities all over the country.
The name “playfair” was decided
on because the leaders want

‘students to learn how to work

hard, and PLAY fair.

The Ultimate lcebreaker activity
is designed to help participants
quickly overcome the prevalent initial

‘concerns that any new student may

have. An FOC member explained,
“We wanted to make sure that the
freshmen met as many of each other

‘as possible, so we decided to do

something different this year. Playfair
got everyone involved and made them

.\R‘J‘S & i.ii?F. F.Dl‘l'()R

wish to.

“We know from c—inails and other feedback we have
received that the weekend is not the best time for everyone
to come out to the drive—in,” says Elise Sheffield, chair of
the Board of Directors of Hull’s Angels. “Many people
work weekends, of course, and we have heard as well
,r from many local college students that they would welcome

a Thursday-night showing.”

‘ The idea behind the Sunday evening reversal is
Q motivated by the fact that some people go to the double-
_ feature in order to see the second film and are forced to sit
“through another movie that they are not interested in
seeing. “I know from personal experience that it can be
rough staying out past 1 a.m. to see a particular movie,"
says David Rachels, who works on the movie-selection
a, committee for llull’s Angels, “So Sundays are a chance
for those people who are eager to see the second movie,
but don’t want to lose all that sleep.”
This new schedule will be launched on Thursday,
September 12 featuring the movies “Signs” and “Road to

l BY SAM LAGRONE

\’.\'ll DESK

This is a quick and dirty
day in the life of an average
cadet.

After pounding my head
against as many large objects as I
could find I figured ifl couldn’t be

4‘ funny, then at least I could be

informative.
6:30 A.M.: The freshmen (Rats)

Hull‘s Drive-ln Theatre, Lexington’s only drive—in
movie theatre will be introducing some experimental
changes this upcoming year. Located on Route 11
approximately 5 miles north of W&L’s campus, Hull’s has
u been a favorite of Washington and Lee students for years.

Hull”s is exceptional in the sense that it is run by a local
non—profit organization known as Hull's Angels. This
year’s initiatives should help to increase 1-lull’s
accessibility to all and, as a result, its popularity.
Traditionally, Hull’s has shown double—features
each weekend, on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday. This
fall, double-features will also be shown on Thursday
evenings in addition to the current line-up. Also new
p this season, the order of the films will be reversed on
Sunday nights to allow people to see different movies
on different nights without staying up later than they

all act silly together, so they had an
immediate memory with their
classmates”.

FOC members were ‘trained’
and prepared by the host before the
new students arrived at the Ruins
on Sunday evening. The host
taught them how to help lead the
activities, and how to make sure
that no new student was ever left
alone.

When the freshmen ﬁnished their
meal, Playfair took the stage, and all
of the new students were asked to do
several initial activities. They were to
stand up at the sound of a whistle
and form groups of 3, then 6. Students
were then divided into groups
according to birth month, and asked
to learn the names of everyone in their
small group.

As the evening went on, so did
the activities. FOC member Cara
Cronin, a sophomore, recalls, “The
kids were real enthusiastic and
willing to try the different
activities...it was great meeting so
many ofthe new freshmen”. As this
was the first year that Washington
and Lee has hosted Playfair, the
students walked away from the
Ruins Sunday night having different
opinions on the success of the
event.

The overall consensus of the
freshmen is that while the way it
was presented was ‘corny’, it was
a good way to meet people.
Elizabeth King, another
sophomore FOC member
commented, “You did get to meet
people, and even if you don’t
remember their names, at least you
will recognize their face when you
see them around”.

Freshman Donny Banks liked the
event because he said that he met a
lot of people, even if he encountered

.Hul|’s Drive-ln changes schedule

BY CATHERINE C. Gm’

Freshman Orientation Leaders introduce new activity to Orientation Week lineup

them in a way that was quite out of
the ordinary. For an ice breaker, most
agreed that it was ‘pretty good.’

Many of the FOC members
thought that Playfair was a very good
way for students to become
acquainted, but also found that they
met a lot of students without an
icebreaker~type activity during
orientation week. Several freshmen
were overheard talking about being
in the same ‘core group’ at playtair,
and were heard saying how much they
enjoyed it because they met so many
people.

Another freshman activity
during the orientation week was
Pieces of the Puzzle, the two-part play
put on partially by Burr Datz. He acted
out scenes which concerned eating
disorders, alcoholism, partying,
dating, teen sex and teen pregnancy.
Freshman Olivia Mansfield stated
that, “The information they were
presenting was valuable, but the way
it was presented made it hard to take
seriously.”

‘In response to some of the
comments made by Burr Datz about
sex, freshman Pierce Owings
thought, “He was really dirty.”
Although it may have been a very
controversial play that was often
difficult to take seriously, freshman
Donny Banks enjoyed the skits,
"While they were pretty
controversial topics, he didn’t give
his own opinion, which was good".

Overall, Orientation Week went
very smoothly, and the freshmen
seem to be adjusting well to college
life. As Cara Cronin said, “They
were a lot more involved in the
activities than 1 anticipated”.

Hopefully the freshmen have
finished Orientation week with fond
memories that will last for years to
come.

Perdition”. The films will begin at dusk, which is

approximately 8 p.m., though the gates open at 7. The fall

of September 26.

463-262 1 .

get up, rub the sleep out their eyes,
shave, get dressed, roll up their
mattresses and stack their wooden
cots in the comer.

6:50 A.M.: Rats get to their
senior mentors’ room and rub the
sleep out their eyes, help them
shave, get them dressed, roll up their
mattresses and stack their wooden
cots in the comer.

6:55 A.M.: A booming god-
like voice breaks the silence

season ends on Sunday, October 6. Between now and
then Hull’s will show such other double—features as
“Triple X” and “Bloodwork” the weekend of September
19, and “Austin Powers 3” and “Blue Crush” the weekend

lf this new schedule is successful, many more
Lexington residents as well as college students will be
able to enjoy the unique cinematic experience. For more
information, feel free to visit www.hullsdriveincom or call ,

Hull’s hopes to see as many members of the
University community as possible this fall!

sounding the five-minute call to
breakfast roll call. Some
upperclassmen, the ones bent on
conserving as much energy as
possible, roll out of bed and
jump into yesterday’s uniform
and run down the stairs while
they tuck in their shirts.

7:00 A.M.: The student
body (The Corps, always
capitalized) stand with their
companies (a group of about

  

(I.tiiii~iu\i.: C. Gm’
Airis 8: Liii: El)l’l‘()R
E\i\iut;ui@\iii‘.ii>i'

MONDAY, Si.~‘;i>i“i?..\—tii3r~.ii 9, 2002

STUDIOUS STUDENTS SILENTLY STUDY

Ari‘ l)rP»\R‘iiir.Ni‘ Puss RF.l.l‘-ASE

Steven G. Paulk will show his
sculpture in duPont Gallery at
Washington and Lee September
16 to October 26th. The opening
reception and gallery talk will be
on Friday, September 20 at 5:30
p.m. The exhibit, entitled “Found
and Lost: 1982-2002,”is of mixed
media constructions. Using
found objects combined with
painting, drawing, and sculptural
fabrication. Paulk explores social
and political themes in powerful
formal compositions.

Paulk received his BFA from
Stephen F. Austin University, his
MFA from Southern Methodist
University and has been a Resident
Artist at the Glassell School at
Houston. I-le has taught at
Southern Methodist University, at
the Oxbow School in Saugatuck,
Michigan, and at the Glassell
School. He worked as a set designer
and as a restoration builder in
Houston before taking up his
present position as the Residential
Building Inspector for the City of
Lexington in 2001. He is also
currently serving as an adjunct
professor of art at James Madison
University.

Over the last twenty years Paulk
has exhibited widely with numerous
solo and group shows in Texas,
Arkansas, Oklahoma, and Louisiana
 will be his introduction to local
audiences. Areception will follow his
talk; the public is invited.

 

140 organized by height.) We
pay respect to the flags and our

Ti. ill‘ um

(.}i\-'i-‘.i'i"i'iii:oi.i')r:< 7l.l.l?‘.(ili‘l’l{Y.‘]c1'Ct‘nlali i\'lCVVill.iati1sa1id liista pivotal few days, they are not daunted. No. they, like niany
x\crec are hard at W()t.'l{ preparing for the aairlemic demands of

their sophomore year. Though work has moutited in these

l
l
students, cnjtiy the challenge of SCl1(,)( il work, as thev ciijoir the l
' ‘ ' l
lovely autumnal bree'/.e. Sweaty tourists gtiped. l

Locals Dut Gibiti

people need to get down here. Then
we sit down and eat eggs out of a
carton and a strange gravy sauce
with flecks that could be ground
beefor gravel.

7:50A.M.: Ten-minute call to the
first class.

8:00 A.M. -12:00 P.M.: Classes
form up. The highest-ranking cadet
takes roll and makes a report to the
professor, who is usually in
uniform. The diversity of some of
the schedules can be hilarious. A

higher ups take attendance to ,<_'p.c'atlet can go from ethics and a

make sure that we haven’t"i

slipped out during the night to
set up a counter-culture sandal
production commune in
Vermont.

7210 -7:50 A.M.: The Corps
marches down to breakfast with
drums. Really loud drums. Sinus
clearing drums. The Sudafed

"fidiscussion ofpacifism to Army lab

to learn the finer points of shooting
people.

2:00: Lunch. Cadets line up again
and take roll.

2 : 00-4 : 00
classes.

4:15 P.M.: Military Duty. This is
reserved for mandatory three mile

P.M.: More

runs, study. mzirching practice,
speeches, presentations, sports
practice...etc.

6:30 P.M.: Supper, more
respect to flags and more making-
sure-you’re—still—hcre stuff. (l
swear when it comes to

attendance make the hardest high»

school vice principal look like a

six~year—old girl in a ballerina.

costume.)

7:00-10:45 P.M.: Study Time. this ;
is when lots of guys and girls play?

video games and sleep.
l0:45-l 1:00 "P.M.: A fifteen

minute chunk oftime that cadets}
can throw a Frisbee and not geti
in trouble for violating study)

rules.
ll:00 P.M.: Lights out.

Reach Sam LaGrone at
lagroiie.vr@nzai I. vnii. edu.

 

 

 

PAGE 6 ii

W&L returns 17 starters
from team that tied tor2nd
in conference last year

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

To start the 2002 football season,
Frank Miriello did something he’d
never done in his seven previous
years as Washington and Lee head
coach.

At Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence media day at the end of July,
Miriello picked his Generals to ﬁnish
ﬁrst in the conference.

“For quite some time, I’d pick us
three, four myself. Last year I picked
us third and we tied for second,”
Miriello said. “This year I picked us
ﬁrst. I think that there’s some pieces
in place now that that could happen.”

The Generals return 17 starters
from a team that went 5-5, 3-3 in the
ODAC, in 2001 . Among that group is
senior running back Chris Sullivan,
who led the nation in all-purpose
yards last year with 2,008, including
1,189 and eight touchdowns on the
ground.

According to Sullivan, the team’s
familiarity with each other will play a
bigger role than the amount of talent
on the ﬁeld.

“We are deﬁnitely more comfort-
able with all of these guys returning,”
he said. “We come into this season
already knowing how each other
works and thinks, and that can make

FALL

OPEN FIELD. Senior Chris Sullivan was an Associated Press

TEE RING-Tun PHI

SPORTS
Generals irn for OA titl

 
  

JEREMYFRANRUN
SPOKIS EDHOR
EMRI; FRlNl\IllN]@\VIU.FDU

(I1lKIE3YOFSUUSNUlI\I.-\'IU\1

the nation in all-purpose yards with 2,008. He gained 1,189

Third Team Little All-America selection in 2001 after leading rushing yards and eight touchdowns on 253 carries.

a big difference when things have to
happen in a split—second.”

Junior quarterback Peter Dean, a
converted defensive back, returns to
the lineup with a full season ofexperi—

ence under his belt. Dean completed
49.6 percent of his passes in 2001,
throwing for 1,424 yards with eight
TDs and eight interceptions.

Dean will have plenty of protec-

tion from an experienced offensive
line. Senior Mat Rapoza is a returning
All-America selection on the offen-
sive line, where he is joined by fellow
All-ODAC pick Scott Kucinski.

W&L beneﬁts from quiet offseason

BY DAVID CROWELL
AssIsTANT spORTs EDITOR

Last year, the Washington and
Lee women’s soccer team opened
the season with a tougher road than

‘ most in the Old Dominion Athletic

Conference. The Generals returned
12 players, but faced the prospect
of introducing 12 freshmen to the
program and replacing an all-con-
ference goalie.

To make matters more difficult, a
new coach, Neil Cunningham, took
the reins, eager to lead a team that
narrowly missed an ODAC Champi-
onship in 2000.

With that in mind, you could ra-
tionalize last season’s double-over-
time loss to Roanoke in the ODAC
Semiﬁnals.

For the 2002 team, however, there
will be no excuses for a slow start or
mistakes due to team chemistry.

“Since we have so many returning
players, we were able to come into
preseason knowing what to expect.
We got right into working on what
was important and what we wanted
to improve from last season,” junior
midﬁelder/defender and co-captain

‘ Meghan Hayde said. “We all have the

same goals, which will make it that
much easier to attain them.”

Hayde will combine with senior
midﬁelder Jenny Thomas and senior
defender Lindsey Duran to form the
trio of captains responsible for lead-
ing the Generals into battle.

“They’re great leaders,”
Cunningham said. “They set a great
example for incoming freshmen, but
also for the players who have been

 here and know the system.”

Hayde hopes to follow up on her

1 stellar sophomore season, when she

RIESI Q7SX')KISlNK)lI\ TKN

HIGH EXPECTATIONS. Junior Heather Coleman and the \X/ashington and Lee women’s
soccer team are shooting for their ﬁrst Old Dominion Athletic Conference title.

earned First Team All-ODAC honors.
Thomas, also a captain last season,
hopes to add to her career points to-
tal (33 points on 10 goals and 13 as-
sists) while solidifying a midﬁeld that
graduated four-time First Team All-
ODAC performer Kate Bidwell.

Duran, an Honorable Mention All-
ODAC selection last season, will an-
chor the defense along with Hayde
and sophomore Kelley Zagol, who
also garnered Honorable Mention All-
ODAC honors last season.

The strong defense will only help
sophomore goalies Emily Barker (1 1
games, 0.89 GAA) andAbigail Pfeiffer
(eight games, 0.87 GAA), who each
gained valuable experience last year.

Providing the offensive punch
this season will be a number of veter-
ans, led by junior forward Fontaine
Marcoux. Marcoux earned First Team
All-ODAC accolades last year aﬁer
scoring six goals and recording a
school-record 12 assists.

In addition, junior Susannah

 

Hewlett and sophomores Maggie
Hope, Ginny Helms and Molly
Plummer should spend plenty of time
threatening opposing defenses.

Curmingham has no qualms about
his offense. “Creating chances is
something we’ve always been good
at doing,” he said. “We just need to
convert on more of those chances than
we did last year.”

The only true question mark this
season is at midﬁeld, where Bidwell
spent four years drawing constant
attention from opponents.

Thomas and junior Heather
Coleman, who scored ﬁve goals and
added an assist on her way to Honor-
able Mention All-ODAC honors,
should spearhead a talented midﬁeld.

“It’s difficult to replace a great
player, but we’ve changed our play-
ing style a bit to deal with the loss.
We also have some sophomores
(Rorrmey Wilson, Martha Allgood,
Alison Irvin) and incoming freshmen
who can hopefully do some things for
us,” Cunningham said.

Despite the loss of Bidwell, none
of the Generals doubt that this team,
with 16 returning players and great
depth, can walk away with its first-
ever ODAC championship.

“Our program has continually
gained strength and experience, which
should make us one of the top con-
tenders for the title,” Thomas said.
“Our team’s success is dependent on
always playing our game and never
letting the level of play drop despite
what our opponent does.”

‘‘I really think we have the ability
and the talent to do it this year,”
Hayde agreed. “We know what we
need to get done and I really think
everyone is going to put in the work
to make it happen.”

Join the sports staff of the P/92°.

Opportunities are available to cover Washington and Lee sports.
Writers are needed for game stories, features and interviews.

If you’re interested, Contact Sorts Editor Jeremy Franklin at
X4060 or ﬁramé/z'rrj@u//rt. edzr or stop by our weekly staff meetings

at 5 p.m. on Mondays.

€011

 

There’s not really a drop-o be-
hind those two, as seniors Joe Vitta
and John Melillo, juniors Rick Gazica
and Mark Muchmore and sophomore
Anderson Braswell round out the
ranks on the line.

“Strength of the team,” Miriello
said. “This offensive line is moving
better, they’re stronger, they’re more
athletic. This is as good of an offen-
sive line as we’ve had here in quite
some time.”

Senior tight end Jay Thomas, who
led W&L with 38 catches for 575
yards and six scores in 2001, high-
lights the Generals’ receiving corps.
Senior Dyllan Rankin will join sopho-
mores Taylor Callaham, Jon Brimer and
John Bamwell and freshman Clark
Kensinger in the hunt for playing time
at wideout.

One of the Generals’ primary con-
cerns in 2002 is depth, particularly on
the defensive side of the football.
Several players, including lineman
Brian Becker, linebacker Ben Krasnoif
and safety Lee Walker, all juniors,
haven’t made it through practice 100
percent healthy.

“If one of our front-liners gets
dinged a little bit, then we’ve got a
couple of question marks coming up
in a hurry,” Miriello said. “We’re
young and inexperienced with back-
ups in our front seven. But the front
seven, if they’re healthy, is very good.
And when the first four guys in the
secondary are on the ﬁeld, we’re very
good.”

Juniors Jess Lipsey and Andrew
Bahl both return to the three-man de-

 

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

One of the few things that will be
the same this year for the Washing-
ton and Lee men’s soccer team will
be the ultimate goal of winning an
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
championship.

The Generals have a slew of new
starters for Rolf Piranian, who en-
ters his 27th season as head coach,
as well as 13 freshmen on the ros-
ter.

“We’re definitely a different
team,” Piranian said. “We’ve
lost some very important play-
ers to this team. But we have
seven seniors, so that should
mean you’d have pretty good
leadership.”

Senior co-captains Brad
Murphy and Kevin Bibona are
back at forward and defender, re-
spectively. Classmates Paul
Ne gron and Sean Hardin are in the
mix on defense, while Garreth
Winstead will appear in the Gener-
als’ midﬁeld.

Rounding out the senior class
are goalies Tim Foley and Brad
Heam, who will split playing time in
the Generals’ net.

the team when we went to the
Sweet 16 of the NCAA Tourna-
ment two years ago,” Foley said.
“That experience has helped us
prepare for this season because
we know how great it was to get
there and we are hungry to get
back.”

The arrangement in front of Foley
and Heam is an early-season task
for W&L to ﬁgure out. Sophomore
defenders Peter Miller and Brian
Pirkle are also seeking playing time,
as the Generals have yet to decide
on a sweeper.

New faces, same goals .
armen’seaforward .

“There are still a handful of
senior players that were part of

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2002'

gridiron ~

fensive line. Senior Matt Stavish
started all 10 games at linebacker in
2001; he will be joined by Krasnoffgp
senior Andrew James and sophomore 2
Lloyd Wilson this year.

Junior Ted Maﬂitt tied for the team
lead with ﬁve interceptions last sea-
son, and he joins Walker at safety!
Seniors Matt Conners, who returns
after taking a season off to focus on
lacrosse, and Brian Meehan should
start at cornerback. ‘

Sullivan averaged 26.7 yards per
kick return and 10.7 on punt returns
last year, giving the Generals a lethal
weapon on special teams.

The kicking game is far from a cer-I
tainty, however. Junior Whit
Whitﬁeld is back as the team’s punter,
but the Generals are still searching for
a replacement for graduated‘
placekicker Brad Wiginton.

Min'el1o’s faith in his team wasn’t
echoed by the other coaches in the
ODAC, who tabbed W&L to ﬁnish
ﬁfth in the seven-team conference!
Bridgewater, which lost to Mount
Union (Ohio) in the Division III na-
tional title game, is again the favorite
to win the conference. 1‘

“The ODAC is one of the most
evenly matched conferences in all of
college football, and no game can be
taken for granted,” Sullivan said. “We
are building off three 5-5 seasons in a!
row, and we need to break out of that.
And if there is any team that can, it is
this year’s.’’ '‘

The Generals open the season at
home against Johns Hopkins at 1 p.m.
Saturday.

OODRTIE»YN<)RMATIo\=
OFFENSE WEAPON. Senior forward Brad Murphy will share captain duties with A
defender Kevin Bibona for the W&L men’s soccer team in 2002.

Sophomore Justin Mygatt and
freshman Walker Nickles will join
junior Jacob Stoehr, W&L’s leading
scorer in 2001, and Winstead in the
midﬁeld.

Piranian said that his middle —
the Generals play a 3-5-2 set — is
talented, but needs a chance to play i‘
together. “We’re tinkering around
with that and trying to establish
chemistry,” he said.

The Generals also must ﬁght a
tough schedule, which doesn’t
feature a home match until Octo-
ber. But playing away from home ’
for the ﬁrst month of the season
could have a positive spin foria
W&L.

“We have two tournaments we’re
excited about, that will give us a
bunch of games to experiment with,”
Piranian said. “We want to win ev-
ery game, but if you lose a non-con-
ference game in one of these tour-
naments, it doesn’t have to be the
end of the world.” K

Defending conference champion
Roanoke, arguably W&L’s biggest
rival in soccer, headlines the list of
teams the Generals will compete‘
with in the ODAC this year.

“In conference, I would say that
Roanoke is the team I look forward
to playing the most because they
are our biggest rival and there is!
always a little bit of bad blood be-
tween the two sides, which always
makes for a great match,” Foley
said. ‘

Even among the seniors, the Gen-
erals have an eye to the future of
men’s soccer at W&L, but they’re
not losing sight of that armual pre-
season goal. «Q

“I ﬁrmly believe that we will take
home another ODAC championship
this year,” Foley said. “We are just,
trying to leave a solid legacy fornext
year’s seniors to pick up where we
left off and improve.”

 

  

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2002

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

Washington and Lee volleyball
has their work cut out for them this
year, but the team is optimistic and

ﬂrepared to meet the challenges of the
pcoming season.

Fans will recall that the Generals
won the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference championship last year

‘with a 10-0 record in conference play,
and a 30-5 record overall. W&L de-

i feated Christopher Newport in the

first round of the NCAA Division
III Tournament before falling to
‘Emory.

A season like that should be difﬁ-
ciilt to follow up, especially when
coupled with the graduation of Lind-

‘say Ruckert, a four-time All-ODAC
First Team player and three—time
ODAC Player of the Year.

In spite of that excellence last sea-

son, head coach Bryan Snyder is quite
-“positive about the team this year.

“We’ve been practicing for a week
and a half, and so far, performance
has been good,” Snyder said. “We

‘had our intra-squad scrimmage last
Saturday (Aug. 31), and that went
very well.”

The team is young this year — of
the 12 players, 11 are freshmen or

“sophomores. Snyder enjoys that qual-
. ity of his team, however.

“They are a very young team, but

with that youth comes a lot of enthu-

gsiasm and energy,” the third-year
head coach said. “They’re very
coachable and receptive, and they’ve
been working very hard.”

In addition, Snyder noted that

‘while losing Ruckert was difﬁcult, the

1 Hockey

‘rises fast
dnODAC

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

R, The no-longer rookie Wash-
}ington and Lee ﬁeld hockey team
3is off to an excellent start this
year.

Led by head coach Wendy Orrison
‘and assisted by Melissa Miranda, the
team is past its first-year jitters and is
ready‘ to take on the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference.

'1 The Generals had a difﬁcult sea-
son in 2001, with a 3-10 record over-
all, 2-7 in ODAC play. However,
seven of those losses were by one
goal, and one was to eventual con-
ference champion Lynchburg, a 1-0
ﬁnal score. This year, the Generals
are looking to avenge those close
games.

! Last season, W&L was ranked
10th in the preseason coaches’ poll.
But this year, Orrison noted with no
small satisfaction that the team is

. picked fourth. The Generals are on
the young side, but they are learn-
ing well.

“Three or four of those freshmen
will start, and all of them will see

Asome playing time,” Orrison said.
“They’re a good, strong group, and

,' that type of energy helps the up-
‘ perclassmen rise to their greatest

‘ potential, too.”

Co-captains Kathleen Gibson, a se-
nior, and Kelly Taffe, a junior, were
also very conﬁdent about the team
this year. Gibson pointed out that the

¢team’s youth will, if anything, be an
asset.

“We’re a young program, and hav-
ing a lot of freshmen and sophomores

indie.

' Spring Break 2003 with STS
‘ Americas #1 Student Tour
Operator
Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free
Information/Reservations

1-800-648-4849 or
www.ststrave1.com

‘F-

.-.e...........-. \\:I1(“‘al‘\VP .. “i -.—~ (4 .».....,- ... ..

MEET THE GENERALS. Senior Stacey Kimmel (12) is the lone
upperclassman on W&L’s 2002 squad. Her teammates include,

team has proven to be much more
balanced this year. “With ﬁve hitters
and a better bench, our overall talent
and skill level has risen a lot,” he said.

Senior captain Stacey Kimmel is
the lone upperclassman, and Snyder
pointed out that she had her best year
to date last season, recording 200 kills,
218 digs, 45 blocks and a school-
record 113 aces. Kimmel praised her
younger teammates.

“I am deﬁnitely conﬁdent in these
girls,” she said. “All six freshmen are
talented, and three will probably see
a lot of playing time right off the bat.

ON THE TURF. junior Kelly Taffe returns to Washington and Lee’s ﬁeld hockey

  .FAI.L   
 Generals Wok with young team

 
   

‘PAGE 7

We’re going to have to spread out
our play a lot, but the freshmen will
ﬁnd their places, and we’ll be as strong
as last year.”

Those three freshmen are middle
blockers Susan Gaillard and Taylor
Gibson and opposite Christine
Gladysz. Outside hitters Laura Byme
and Ashleigh Overly, setter Virginia
Baird and opposite Erin Teichgraeber
may see playing time as well.

Snyder also commended his
sophomores, who will be counted on
to bring needed experience to the
team. Among that bunch is Jennifer

   
 

(DURTER §(XlSll\'lDRI\H

team as a captain. The Generals, entering their second year as a Varsity program,
were picked fourth in the Old Dominion Athletic Conference.

brings a lot of passion to the game,”
Gibson said.

Other players to watch this season
include junior forward Jessica Lake,
who was second on the team in scor-
ing with eight points on four goals;
sophomore forward Kristen Brown,
who started all 13 games last season;
and sophomore link Kitt Murphy, who
earned All-ODAC Honorable Mention
honors last season.

The Generals’ defense will also
be looking for a good season, hav-
ing held opponents to an average
of just 1.95 goals per game with
sophomore defenders Kyle
Meehan and Erin Rathbone on the
ﬁeld.

Orrison was only able to bring the
team in for practice two weeks before
their ﬁrst game, which will be at Mary
Baldwin on Sept. 1 1, but the practices
have gone Very well.

“Our preseason workouts just
ended, and it’s been very fun. The team

  
     
    
   
     
  
  
     



STUDENTS:     

ssarr.

TARBOX RAMBLERS

WITH SHERYL WARNER AND
THIS $0!/THSIDE HOMI-WRECKERS A

  
   

has an amazing enthusiasm and en-
ergy,” Orrison said. “The parents and
administration have been very sup-
portive as well.’’

Assistant coach Melissa Miranda
is the most striking new addition to
the team. Last year, women’s lacrosse
coach Jan Hathom assisted Orrison,
but she has returned to lacrosse full-
time.

Miranda noted that her coworkers
have been very supportive. “I feel that
I’ve been welcomed with open arms,”
she said. “Everyone, from the athletic
director (Mike Walsh) to the faculty
has made me feel at home.”

Taffe said that the practices have
gone very well. “Our preseason work-
outs have been very energetic,” she

said. “The team has been working very _

hard, and we’re ready for Mary
Baldwin.”

The Generals open their home and
conference seasons with a match
against Hollins on Sept. 18.

Lexrn. ginia
Sat., September 14
7:30 p.m.
Their search for a more pure and
immediate music makes their

sound like no other: latched into
a vast history but entirely now.

463-3074  

"’-"“"W-“   .

 

J/TlieRz'rIgIumP}ir'

from left, freshman Christine Gladysz, sophomores Michelle
Chastain andjennifer Lux and freshman Susan Gaillard.

Lux, who set a W&L season record
with 1,186 assists as a freshman.

“Jennifer Lux is our setter, and
she’s very good at it. She was named
ODAC Rookie of the Year last year,
and we’ll be relying on her,” Snyder
said. “We’ve also moved Emily Wolf-
ing to a better position on defense,
so we’ll be taking advantage of her
talents a little better, and Michelle
Chastain should have an excellent
year as well.”

The Generals open ODAC play
with a 6:30 p.m. match against Guilford
at home on Wednesday.

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee women’s
cross country coach Amy Schuckert
wants 2002 to be a blockbuster year
for her program.

In her second year with the Gen-
erals, Schuckert is already thinking
long-term for cross country at W&L.

“I want to help build the founda-
tion to bring us along and switch us
from the program that we’ve been
to a program where we can expect
success year in
and year out,”
Schuckert said.

The Gener-
als have nine
returning run-
ners this year,
complemented
by eight fresh-
men. Senior
Burke Duncan,
who missed qualifying for the
NCAA national meet by one place
last season, headlines the group
coming back to W&L.

Duncan said that this year’s edi-
tion of the Generals has more po-
tential than the 1999 and 2000 Old
Dominion Athletic Conference cham-
pionship squads.

“Going into my fourth cross
country season at W&L, this
year’s squad looks to be the stron-
gest I have been a part of,” she
said. “The amount of talent and
depth is amazing in the freshmen,
and they have all put in the crucial

DUNCAN

 

Women runners look
toward future of program

summer training base to make the
smooth transition to the college
level.”

In a recent time trial, Schuckert
timed eight of her players faster than
W&L’s No. 2 runner a yearjago.
Duncan is still the top General, but
she may have a good deal of com-
petition before the season is over.

Freshmen Molly Drake and Betsy
Frayer are running close behind
Duncan. Currently fourth is another
newcomer to the program, sopho-
more Liz Crawford, whom Schuckert
recruited from the track team.

Senior Jen Fallon, junior Vanessa
Adams and freshmen Meg Garner,
Megan Ward and Sarah Williamson
are also running well in the pre-
season, Schuckert said.

The Generals were picked third
in the ODAC this year, a season af-
ter ﬁnishing fourth. Eastern Menno-
nite and Roanoke were tabbed ahead
of W&L, with Lynchburg a close
fourth.

“I think we’re going to make a
few surprises,” Schuckert said. “I
like the fact that we are ranked third
now. It takes some of the pressure
off. I see three teams who can be
contenders for the title, and I see us
among that three.”

“We have our sights set on an
ODAC championship, and hopefully
an unprecedented finish at the
NCAA regional meet,” Duncan
agreed. “We are a young team so
we have nothing to lose, and every-
thing to prove, which is extremely
exciting.” .

Men boast talented   squad

W&L returns solid corps from cross country team that finished 3rd in conference

BY DAVID CROWELL
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

On Aug. 23, the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference men’s cross country
coaches picked Washington and Lee to
ﬁnish third in their armual preseason poll.

If the Generals can capitalize on an
abundance of great runners, however,
those coaches might be reconsider-
ing by the end of the season.

Coach John
Tucker’s squad re-
turns without the
services of Ken
Jackrnan,aco-cap-
tain last season,
but seniors Will
Teichman and
David Hicks
should help the
team improve on
last season’s third—place ﬁnish at the
ODAC Championships.

Teichman ended his season on a
good note last fall, ﬁnishing 54th at
the NCAA South/Southeast Region
Championships two weeks after run-
ning a season-best time at the ODAC
Championships. Teichrnan’s time of
27:12 at the ODAC meet helped him
secure 12th place.

 

TUCKER

“Good rurmers improve their times
through a combination of training and
intelligent racing,” Teichman said.
“My success in last year’s ODAC
meet gave me the conﬁdence neces-
sary to train over the summer months
and will bolster smart racing this
year.”

But don’t think that the Generals
are a one-man team. In fact, Teichman
calls W&L’s group of runners the most
promising team he’s seen during his
four years of competition.

Tucker believes that Teichman,
junior Andy Schorr, sophomores Wes
Bell and Steve Chambers and fresh-
man Andrew Johnson “are an excel-
lent top ﬁve” and that they lead “the
most talented team we’ve had in ﬁve
or six years.”

In addition, the Generals feature a
number of other tough competitors to
give Tucker one of the deepest ros-
ters in the conference. Hicks is a very
capable runner with three years of
experience, and Tucker believes that
junior Rusty Meyer can step up to be
a top runner.

Junior Andrew Fotinos also
stepped up last season to become one
of the top four runners on the team
after an injury sidelined Schorr.

    

For now, however, the Generals will
not be running with a full team. Tucker
has wisely chosen to rest Teichman,
Schorr and Bell due to some soreness
in their legs.

“We’re being
careful with them
to avoid injuries.
We don’t want to
lose them for the
important part of
the season,”
Tucker said. “We
should have our
entire squad run-
ning by Sept. 28.”

When the whole squad comes to-
gether later this month, Teichman and
Tucker expect the team to live up to
its potential.

“We have strong runners and a
depth which will enable us to consis-
tently perform at a higher level,’’
Teichman said. “Our success will
hinge on the ability of our squad to
come together and run as a team dur-
ing the season’s key races. We expe-
rience the most success when we train
and race side by side, pushing each
other to reach our potentia .”

W&L hosts the armual Generals
Invitational on Saturday.

T EICHMAN

Questions, comments or suggestions for the sports pages of the P/72?
Contact Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin at frame/z'7y'@u2/u.edu 'or
Assistant Sports Editor David Crowell at crou/e//d@u2/u.edzt.

For W&L sports news
and scores, visit
http://ath|etics.wlu.edu

    

 
 

  

 

Have a name or number embroidered
on your shirt while you shop.
Extended embroidery hours for this weekend:

Friday 10-3
Saturday 11-5
Coming soon:

University Sportwear Grand Opening

September 23-28

15 W. Washington Street

Lexington, Virginia
5‘.l.‘.’.:?‘§4.'.;”.,".‘.?.°   -

— 5--ﬁr‘ ...a...v...-....«...u-  sI

 

 

 

l.’.ir;i;: 8

enerals op

rn']i«:iiEMr Fiu.Nt<t.iN
SF0ll'l‘S l3ilTzl'l‘(.2ll

Washington and Lee has started
the 2002 volleyball season in similar
fashion to the way they opened a year
ago.

The Generals won three of their
four matches at the W&L Invita-
tional on Friday and Saturday, just
as they did in 2001. Head coach
Bryan Snyder got considerable
playing time for several freshmen,
much like last season.

“All in all. the ﬁeshnnin class did a
greatjob for it being their first week-
end of collegiate volleyball, so .l.’m
very happy with where they are right
now." Snyder said of his seven first-
ycar players.

W&L knocked offGoucher twice,
beat Shenandoah on Friday and lost
a live-game match to Christopher
Newport Saturday morning.

The Generals started the invita-
tional with a 30-1 1. 30-14. 30-20 win
over Goucher. Sophomore Michelle
Chastain set a school record with nine
aces. including four straigltt to close
out the first game, en route to an All-
Tournamcnt Team selection.

“(Chastain) played really. really
well in all facets ofthe game,” Snyder

    

  

said. ‘She just played so under con-
trol, did a greatjob of serve-receive.
defense. hitting. blocking. She played
great. and were going to need that.
“We’re a young team, and the
sophomore class is really going to
have to step up and be our leaders.”

   

2‘ .

UP, UP AND AWAY. .v\t lc ft. frcslnnaii Susan ( Sail lard serves in \‘<}'&l is victory over
Gouclicr on Friday. ,--\br..>vc_. sophomore “Michelle (lhastain (13) goes up for a kill

it in 1-

during the ('lcncrals’ 30-l ‘I _, 30-14. 3l.l~3ll win over the Grsphcrs.

W&L stepped up their play in the
nightcap against Shenandoah. hand-
ing the Hornets £130-l7, 30-6, 30-} 6
loss. Sophomore Jennifer Lux had 29
assists, and classmate Emily Woiting
contributed 11 kills to complement
Chastain"s l-1.

Snyder thought that his team
served the ball well i.n. both ofF ri day ’s
matches.

“We had a ton of aces. and the
girls were also doing a great job of
serving the zones that I was calling,”
he said. “That really allows us defen-

W&L hits the ground running at Elon

FROM S'l}\l7l’ REPORTS

GRELE;-‘\lSl3()RO. N.C‘. ~~~~~~~ -The Wash-
ington and Lee men”s and women’s

cross country teams started their 2002.

season with a good showing at the
Elon invitational on Saturday morn-
ing. The women’s team placed second
of l3 teams while the men. running
without some oftheir top runners. tin-
ished ti fth of IS teams.

Freshman Molly Drake led the way
for the women, finishing the course in
20:14, good enough for 22nd place.

In the field of l 58 runners. senior
Burke Duncan ﬁnished five seconds
behind Drake to take 25th place. Fresh-
man Betsy Frayer placed 33rd with a
time of20:49.

Sophomore Steven Cliambcrs led

0 the men’s squad, finishing in 28: l4 to

place 26th out of 155 runners. Fresh-

 Friday, Sept. 6
5 W&L d. Gaucher, 30-11, 30-14. 30-20

W&L d. Shenandoah, 30-17, 30-6. 30-16

W&L VOLLEYBALL lNVlTATlONAL

Christopher Newport d. St. Marys, 30-15, 30-21, 30-22
Shenandoah d. Gaucher. 30-24, 30-25, 28-30, 30-19 ’
Catholic d St. Marys, 20-30, 30-26, 30-9, 30-16

man Andrew Johnson placed 38th
with a time of28:4‘) while sophomore
Christopher l-aFlamtne placed 55th
overall.

Women ’s soccer falls to
Wesleyan to open season

NOR F O l..K ~--- The Washington
and Lee womcn’s soccer dropped its
opening contest of the season on Sat.-
urdziy afternoon. falling to Old’ Domin-
ion Athletic Conference rival Virginia
Wesleyan. l-0. With the win, the Mar-
lins moved to 3-0.

Virginia Wesleyan scored the lone
goal ofthc game at the 31:18 mark of
the first half when Megan Parris
scored otfan assist from M errie Tobler.

Despite committing l 8 fouls. the Mar-
lins outshot the Generals l 7-8 on the day.

Virginia Wesleyan’s Laura

Monday, Sept. 9
Women's Soccer

\V’ieder\-vax earned her second victory
in goal and lirst career shutout by
making seven saves on the day.
Sophomores Abigail Pteitfer and Emily
Barker combined to make six saves in
net for W8: l_.

Men drop pair of contests

at Southwestern tourney

GEORGETOWN. Texas ———— -~ The
Washington and Lee n1en’s soccer
team got off to a slow start this past
weekend. dropping a pair ofnon-eon-
ference matches at Southwestern
University. 4-0 to Trinity (Texas) on
Saturday and 4-2 to the host school
on Sunday.

In Saturdays loss. the Generals
could never get anything going as
Trinity jumped out to a 2-0 halftime
lead and never looked back. Josh Card

Men’s Soccer

W&L vs. North Carolina Wesleyan
W&L at Sweet Brier, 4 pm. (‘ll M9”‘°dl5ll= l P-m‘

Women’s Soccer

Christopher Newport at W&L, 4 pm.

led the Tigers with two goals and an
assist in the first ever meeting be-
tween the clubs.

Trinity outshot W&L 29-l for the
game.

in Sunday's matchup against
Southwestern. the Generals struck
ll1‘Sl as senior midlicldcr Kevin Bi bona
scored off an assist from senior for-
ward Brad Murphy at the 25 :38 mark.

The Pirates tied the game less than
a minute later, but the Generals re-
gained the lead before the end of the
half on a goal by freshman midﬁelder
Brett Strohsacker. Sophomore Brian
Pirkle assisted on the tally.

Despite holding the lead at the
break, the Generals quickly fell to
Southwestern’s attack as the Pirates
rattled off three unanswered goals.

Senior Brad l-learn made nine saves
in goal for W&L.

SC(.)REB(.)ARI)

 wttsm... Scui=.ouLE: septEMBEta9—22

Men's Tennis
W&L Fall Classic

Saturday, Sept. 21

    

sively and blocking-wise to set up our
schemes and take away what we're
trying to take away from the other
team.”

The Generals ran into an improved
Christopher Newport team Saturday
morning. Unlike their two meetings
last season, including one in the first
round ofthe NCAA Division I It Tour-
nament, the Captains prevailed by a
21-30, 30-28, 30-25, 19-30, l5-l2 score.

‘‘It was disappointing, just because
we beat them twice last year.” Chastain
said. “They’re a very good team.
They‘ve improved so much from last
year. We had our highs and our lows.“

W&L appeared to be in control
ofthe match during the first game.
After storming out to a 15-4 lead
on seven service points by senior
Stacey Kimmel, the Captains could
get no closer than a seven-point
deficit.

Christopher Newport then won a
pair of closely fought frames to take
the lead in the match. W&L stormed
back to win the fourth game before
the Captains pulled out the win.

Wolting led the team. with I 7 kills.
while Chastain added 14 kills and i5
digs. Freshman Christine Gladysz re-
corded 20 digs, while Lux contributed
46 assists.

Catholic d. Christopher Newport, 26-30, 30-26, 30-24. 30-22

Saturday, Sept. 7

St. Mary's d. Goucher, 30-14, 30-13, .30-28

Christopher Newport d. W&L, 21-30, 30-28, 30-25, 19-30, 15-12
Catholic d. Shenandoah. 30-21, 3046, 30-14

W&L cl. Gaucher, 30-13, 30-15. 30-21

St. lvla-ry’s d. Shenandoah. 30-24. 18-30, 30-22. 30-24

Championship Game
Catholic 11. Christopher Newport, 30-24, 30-23, 30-20

All-Tournament Team

Mary Whiting, GNU

Nina Richardson, CNU
Oksana Boukhtlna. GNU (MVP)

Bridget Guetle. Catholic
Anti Wall, Catholic
Michelle Chastain, W&L

Wednesday, Sept. 11 Field Hockey

Field Hockey 5 d S 15 W&L at Lynchburg, 1 pm.
war at Mary Baldwin. 5 pm. V:{fe;§;,,:§:‘cen,,e ,W,,,ame,,,, . Football

V°“9Yba“ W&L vs. Transylvania. 10:30 am. W&L al G“lll°“l: l W“-

Guéllcrcl at W&L, 6:30 pm.

September 14-15
Field Hockey
W&L at Salisbury Tournament

Saturday, Sept. 14

Cross Country

Generals’ invitational, 10 a.m.
Volleyball (at Centre Tournament)
W&L vs. Avert-alt, 12 pm.

W&L at Centre, 3 pm.

Football

Johns Hopkins at W&L, 1 pm.

W&L vs. Rhodes, 1230 p.m.
Men‘s Soccer
W&L at Methodist. 4 p.m.

Wednesday, Sept. 18
Women’s Soccer

W&L at Lynchhurg, 4 pm.
Field Hockey

Holllns at W&L, 6:30 p.m.
Volleyball

Hollins at W&L. 6:30 pm.

September 21~22
Golf
W&L at James Madison invitational

Men’s Soccer

W&L at Hampden-Sydney. 1 pm.
Women’s Soccer

l‘lOllll"lS at W&L, 1 pm.
Volleyball

W&L at Eastern Mennonite, t p.m.

Sunday, Sept. 22
Women's Soccer
Greensboro at \llI&L. 1 pm.
Volleyball
W&L at Randolph-Macon, 1 pm.
W&L vs. Virginia Wesleyan

(at Randolphlt/lacon), 3 pm.

in']n1ir.trr FRANKLIN
Sl‘0l?.’l‘S l:il‘)l‘l‘t,)§l

Washington and Lee has named
Bryan Snyder interim women ’s bas-
ketball coach for the 2002-03 season.

Snyder served as assistant coach
to Janet llollack, who resigned in
July, for the previous two years. He
is also in his third season as coach
of the volleyball team, which won
an Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence title last year.

“We’re just
really excited.
lt’s a really posi-
tive develop-
ment for the pro-
gram," senior
center Austin
Calhoun said. “I
think that we‘re
all really looking
forward to this
season. We’re
just going to go and give it everything
we’ ve got. The fact that we have Coach
Snyder back is just going to make that
even more positive.”

Snyder‘s top goal for the
women’s team this year is to pro-
vide a streamlined transition for
whoever takes over as W&L’s per-
manent head coach.

"‘Wc‘ve had some success re-
cently. I want to maintain that,” he
said. “I would like to get us back in
the ODAC Tournament. bring in
some good recruits for next year so
that when we hire at full-time coach,
the program is on the upswing."

SNYDER

 

   

g.=.\-'lt..wi_>.nj', S_lEP’l‘l£_hll3lfiR_ 9, 2002

en seson with3 wins in home invite

The Generals had trouble with
handling serves, particularly in the
games that Christopher Newport xx-‘om.

“The games where we served
tougher than they did and serve-re-
ceived better than they did. we beat
them fairly easily,” Snyder said.
“When they served us tough and e
weren’t able to handle their serves.
we got in a hole. and then we got a
little less aggressive with our serves. 

W&L bounced back from the twp-

hour match to defeat Goucher for the.
second time in as many days Satan’
day afternoon. This time the Gener-

als defcated the Gophers 30- l 3. 30-
15. 30-21, led by freshman Lauﬁa
.Byrne’s ll} kills.

Snyder was pleased with his tealn’s
offensive performance over the week-
end. ‘

“We’re trying to work spreading
the offense out a little bit more." he
said. “Our strength this year is being
able to be versatile on offense. run
the ball to live different attackers. u§e
the back-row attack. Those sorts of
things are things that can play to our
advantage.”

The Generals open Old Dominir
Athletic Conference play with a 6:30
pm. match Wednesday against
Gull ford in the Warner Center.

The Generals have some rai-
building to do after graduating
five seniors from a team that fin-
ished l2- l4 and 9-] l in the
OD!-\C. g

Among the graduates were Vir-
ginia College Division Player ofthe
Year Jessica Mentz, a forward who
averaged 20 points and ll.8 re-
bounds per game. and center z\/legzhi
Babst. who tallied 19 points and l0.l
boards a contest. W&L also lost
third-leading scorer Sarah Schmidt,
who hit 40.6 percent of her three-
pointers in 200] -02 while averaging
6.4 points per game.

The Generals do return two play-
ers who started all but three games
last season in freshmen lF;ni.il\y
Barker and Bethany Dannelly.
Barker scored 6.2 points per con-
test. while Dannelly averaged 3.7
points and totaled I52 assists (pi
the season.

With that in mind, having a
coach familiar with the program is
vital to the Generals’ success in
2002-03. 1

“He knows our strengths and
what we have, so he’ll be able to
work" with that and make up our game
plan based on that,” senior guard
Elizabeth lgo said. “Obviously. hav-
ing lost five seniors. were not re-
ally thinking that we’re going to go
out and win an ODAC champion-
ship. 1
“But we definitely have goals.
and we definitely believe that we
can make the ODAC Tourna-
merit.”

Fundraising dates are ﬁlling quickly, so
get with the program! It works. Contact ~

CarnpusFundraiser at (888) 923-3238, or
visit www.campusfundraiser.com

fraternities Q sororities
Bllllls Q Stutlent (lrouns
Earn $1,000--$2,000 this semester with a ‘
proven CampusFundraiser 3 hour
fundraising event. Our programs make h
fundraising easy with no risks. ,

!

Snyder named interim’ .
women’s hoops coach‘

Assistant to take over program for 2002-03 season

I‘.

 

