 

 

Local man
bus ed
or child porn

BY ANDREW LATIMER
NEWs EDITOR

‘F-

P»

I.

K

LexingtonPolicearrestedI_e2dr1gtonresident Shawn
O. Shockley Sept. 9 on nine felony counts of distribu-
tion or transmission of sexually explicity materials
involving a child.

The investigation of Shockley’s home in the 100-
block of West Nelson Street yielded a dozen 3.5-inch
diskettes containing compromising pictures of mi-
nors gathered from different sources on the Internet.

.1 The case marks the second time in ayear that the
Lexington community has been rocked by charges of
sex crimes involving minors. Rockbridge County Cir-
cuit court convicted Virginia Military Institute history
professor Paul G Pierpaoli, Jr., on Feb. 4 for soliciting sex

" with aminor and having carnalknowledge ofa child.

Shockley, 31, came under suspicion inApril when
Lexington police received areport ﬁomthe Waynesboro
(Va) Police Departmentthatamanhaddiscovereda set

A of vulgarpictures onthe Internet belongingto Shockley.

Ofﬁcer Jonathan Shenk investigated the images,
which were hosted on Shockley’s Yahoo! account,
where they could be shared with other users. To
determine if Shockley tookthe pictures himself, Shenk

‘ and VMI Post Officer Huey Johnson posed as a 14-
year-old Asian girl from Staunton and sent the sus-
pect several e-mails to provoke a response.

“It’s a usual practice,” Shenk explained. During

'4 the correspondence Shockley gave out his cell phone
number and solicited sex from the oﬁicers in dis-
guise. They also learned Shockley did not own a
computer himself and instead relied upon public ac-
cess to the Internet.

it It is unclear how long the offending pictures
were displayed on the Internet, but Yahoo! officials
immediately ‘complied with.~Lexington police re-
quests to disable the account.

Lexington police stressed that none of the pic-

2 tures appeared to be taken by Shockley and that he
had no prior sexual offense convictions in Va.

Shockley also faces one misdemeanor count of
possession of child pornography, one count of use

( of a communication system to solicity sex with a
minor and one count of marijuana possession when he
is arraigned Sept. 23. Each felony charge of distribution
carries a sentence ofat least 15 years under the Child

‘ Pornography Prevention Act of 1996.

University slips again
tin collegiate rankings

Annual U. 8. News and World Report list
viplaces W&L within top 15 American liberal arts schools

STAFF REPORTS

2002 RANKINGS

BEST LIBERAL ARTS SCHOOLS

Amherst

Swarthmore; Williams
Wellesley

Carleton, Pomona
Bowdoin; Middlebury
Davidson

10 Haverford

11 Wesleyan

12 Grinell

13 Claremont McKenna; Smith
15 Washington & Lee;
Vassar; Harvey Mudd

<O\l01<h'\)~A

1‘ (Schools that are tied are viewed
by U.S. News as equal.)

 

The writers of US. News and
,, World Report dropped Washing-
ton and Lee University back to
1 5th best liberal arts institution in
their annual list of the nation’s top
colleges, released Fri.

The magazine’s rankings
take into account a weighted
composite that includes the as-
sessment of peer institutions’
administrators, students’ SAT
scores, retention rate of fresh-
men, faculty resources, student
selectivity, ﬁnancial resources,
alumni giving and graduation
rate performance.

Washington and Lee competed
for honors with 217 liberal arts insti-

LEST WE FORGET

REMElV[BERINGSEPI‘.11.Asd0Zﬁ]SOf ﬂagsﬂewabovelmdrigtnrfs
streets (above), \Washington and Lee commemorated the
anniversary of the terrorist attacks on America. At exacdy 8:46
am,d1eLeeClIapelbeIl,alongwiththebellsofareachurches,all
rar1ginuriisontomad<themomer1tArrmcanAidir1esFlight11
aashediritothenorthtowtxof theV(/oﬂdTrade Center: University

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

i NG-TUM

The student wire of War/riwgtorr and Lee Urrirreriih time 1897 (D Orr/we at: p/rzlw/rr.rdrr

Peace Corps
founder to speak

Poverty expert will share four decades of experience

while on duty at the Pentagon

has BR()()l(S/ The Rmg-/wzz P/It
ProvostIaurentBoetschspokeatthe11a.m. “CelcbrateArneIica”
progmmatVMI,andat8p.rn,over200membersof the
cormrnniitygadieredforaCarxllelightServiceondieFmntLawn
Among those remdnberedwerejarnes Gadiel ’00, victim of the

‘ WorldTradeCer1terattad<s,andCmdrRobertSchlegel’85,l<1lled

PHI

*

EDITOR IN CHIEF

Century of Fighting
Poverty” this Tues.
evening at 7:30 p.m. in
Lee Chapel.
“Shriver was
well known before
most of you became
aware of politics,”
said Harlan Beckley,
Shepherd Poverty
Program director, in

civilian award.”

Campus radio returns to airwaves full-tirne

Manager implements change, but not without controversy as Christian program dubbed too ‘religious’

BY DOUGLAS ALLEN AND ANDREW LATIMER
srurr WRITER AND NE\vs EDITOR

After lying quiet for over a year, Wash-
ington and Lee’s FM radio station WLUR
will take to the airwaves once again this
week, this time with a full-time manager and
new home in the Uni-
versity Center.

But more impor-

the challengeiof reviv-
ing itself after its ex-
tended hiatus and loss
of affiliation with the
journalism school. That
task has been given to
Benjamin Losi ’02, the first non-student
general manager/program director.
“WLUR has always been a joke,” said
Losi, who makes it clear that he wants to
see major changes this year. He’s started

Losi

William Connelly.

work.

men 01' senators .

guest speaker.

tantly, the statiqrrfaees « - -

BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTI‘
EDITOR IN CHIEF

The Washington Term Program is still on track, de-
spite the sabbatical of its director, Politics Professor

According to its webpage, the Program “enhance(s)
students’ understanding of national politics and gover-
nance” through an internship and additional academic

Connelly believes in “participant observation,”
said senior Ruth Hill Yielding, his work study student.
“That’s observing and taking part in your internship,
but not ‘going native.

In the Program, students intern four days of the
week. Internships are not necessarily with congress-

On Fridays, Connelly teaches a two-hour class,
Hill said. In the afternoon, the program arranges for a

Often the speaker has been “someone from a lob-
bying group, or a Congressman,” Hill said. Past guest

by retooling the deejay application pro-
cess, which now requires students to sub-
mit a mix CD ofthe proposed show’s con-
tent so he can gauge their musical talent,
taste and interest. ‘

The goal is professionalism, but according
to junior Timothy Smith, there have been some
casualties. When Smith inquired about continu-
ing the Christian music program he hosted his
ﬁeshman year, Losi denied the request.
-“Ehave nothing against Christian music and I
want the programming to be about expression, but
I do not want shows that promote particular reli-
gious and political interests,” he said

According to Smith, the exact word-
ing Losi used was that the program would
be “distasteful,” although Losi refutes that
statement. Smith remarked, “My guess is
that he’s making a very uneducated as-
sumption.”

So far, 16 radio shows have been ap-
proved and should begin broadcasting this

week under the station’s new and extended 8
a.m. to 2 a.m. daily schedule. The average day
will include a blend of music and talk shows,

as well as continued coverage of sporting _

events. Student-run shows will each have one
2-hour slot per week.

Although WLUR has existed since the
mid-sixties, the past two years have
marked some the station’s most uncertain
times. Plans for Reid Hal1’s renovations

didn’t include space ‘for a radio studio, '1 r

and the program‘ was left hanging. Senior
and student manager recalled, “No one in
the administration had a clear-cut answer
as to the status of WLUR.”

It took Director of Communications Tom
White to recognize the station’s value and
urge the university to keep 91.5 FM on the
air, recognizing that “WLUR is a tremendous
asset to the university... and a great outlet
for W&L students.”

See WLUR, page 2

Applications due soon for Washington Term

speakers include U.S. Vice President Dick Cheney, Sec-
retary of Labor Robert Reich and Congressman Jim

Davis (D-FL).

Particiapants in the program keep a journal, and write
a term paper of “fourteen or fifteen pages,” Hill said.

Despite his sabbatical, Connelly will also par-

ticipate in the preliminary stages of the Washington
Term Program. He will review applications and con-
duct interviews.

Approximately 16 students are selected annually.

quired.

$77

Students of any major are welcome to apply,
though an introductary‘ Politics 100, 101, or 111 is re-

The program is free outside of living expenses, which
include room. Students may live with family or friends in
the area, Hill said, but most choose to live together in an

apartment complex.

Students on ﬁnancial aid should consult with the
Financial Aid oﬂice.

There will be an informational meeting on Mon., Sept.

23 at 7:30 pm in Room 221 of the Commerce School. Appli-
cations are due four days later.

BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTT

Sargent Shriver, a historical
ﬁgure, will present “Recollec-
tions and Challenges: A Half

 

a letter to Shepherd students.

“Shriver was one of the
most notable statesmen and
humanitarians in political and
civic affairs, a career earning
him the Presidential Medal of
Freedom, the nation’s highest

 

 
MONDAY, SEPl"EMBERl6, 2002

Shriver’s political work be-
gan in 1960 when he served as a
political and organization coor-
dinator for then presidential
nominee John F. Kennedy. Fol-
lowing Kennedy’s election,
Shriver was appointed
the first director of the
Peace Corps.

“His visit to
Washington and
Lee University is
prompted by the
Board of Trustees’s
Special Resolution
honoring his life of
service,” said jun-
ior Victoria Gurioan, Contact
vice-chair for publicity.

Former Peace Corps mem-
bers in this area will make a pre-
sentation at Shriver’s talk. Cabell
Brand, chair of the Roanake
Board of Total Action Against

SI-IRIVER

See SHRIVER, page 2

    

l)hlUIO(I)UKIB\ WWMWf (ml
PESKY. Common mosquitos might turn
into more than a nuisance for residents.

West Nile
reaches area

BY KATIE HOWELL
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Lexington-area college students
are not completely immune to the mos-
quito-bome West Nile virus, local
health ofﬁcials said.

Dr. Douglas Larsen, Director of the
Central Shenandoah Health District
and the Rockbridge-Lexington and
Augusta-Staunton Health Depart-
ments said now that West Nile virus is
present in Rockbridge County and Lex-
ington, older citizens and students alike
should take appropriate precautions to
combat infection of the virus.

According to the Virginia State
Department of Health, West Nile virus
infection is one spread by bites from
infected mosquitoes. The virus usu-
ally causes a mild illness, but may also
cause encephalitis, an inﬂammation of
the brain, or meningitis, an inﬂamma-
tion of the brain and spinal cord lining.

“We’ve mostly found the virus (in
our district) in crows and blue jays,”
Larsen said. “There have been no hu-
man cases here yet, but that doesn’t
mean people shouldn’t be careful.”

Larsen said the Virginia Health
Department tested one crow and two
blue jays from Rockbridge County posi-
tive for West Nile virus on August 27

See MOSQUITOES, page 2

UPS AND DOWNS , tutions, which are classified as
, THE LAST 10 YEARS’ RANKINGS schools that focus on undergradu-
1992 22nd 1998 8th ates and award at least half of their
1993 20th 1999 14th degrees in F1‘? liberal %"‘S- _
1994 20th 2000 12th Th°V“%1“1aM‘1¥“=",Y Insmute
, 1995 15th 2001 13th wasnamed best public liberal arts
’‘ 1996 15th 2002 15th institution In the country, put they
1997 13th did not appear in the top 50.
W&L was also named the 4th
SELECTED CATEGORIES best value college in the “Great
,\ 2001 2002 SchoFols athGrehat Zrices” list.
.. ort et 11' yearrnarow,
,S__:I:crtg:3/urces,  120;: Princeton topped the overall list,
Almnnigiving 8th 9th followed by a tie between

1‘ ‘'re1iectsins1itutions'oommitmerItto
student instruction via small classes,
adequate faculty salaries and having
themosthighly educated faculty.

DATA couursr or US. NEW’i‘.~i.‘\'D WORLD REPORT

Harvard and Yale. .

No one in the administration
was available for comment on the
rankings as of press time.

The US. News guide, whichbe-
gan in 1983, has steadily grown into
one _of the most inﬂuential resources
inthe college decision-makingprocess.

BY KATIE HoWELI.
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Washington and Lee University’s
English Department will host its twen-
tieth “celebrity literary critic” at
tonight’s Shannon-Clark lecture with
Stanford University English Profes-
sor Franco Moretti.

“Our line-up of lecturers has in-
cluded some of the most celebrated
and prestigious literary critics of our
time,” said English Department Chair
James Warren.

Moretti, as the Shannon-Clark
lecturer, will talk tonight in Northen
Auditorium at 8 :00 to faculty, students
and the community on ‘Maps, Graphs,
Trees: Abstract Models for Literary
History.’

Warren said Moretti is a scholar

 

of nineteenth-century German, French,
British, Italian and Spanish literary his-
tory. He said his talk will include a
Power-Point presentation of maps, trees
and graphs tying together places and
situations in nine-
teenth-century
European ﬁction.

“He can
show things about
different trades
and professions in
the work and dis-
cover things that
you had no idea
were present,”
Warren said. “He shows patterns that
you would not normally notice.”

In addition to the lecture, Moretti
will be talking with English faculty and
majors at a Skylark retreat tomorrow.

MORETTI

“The Sharmon-Clark lecturer al-
ways goes to Skylark farm with all the
English faculty and majors, which
gives us the chance to discuss the
lecturer’s work with him,” Warren said.

Warren said not only are Moretti’s
maps a valuable source of information,
but also are his discussions afterward.

“Another cool thing about
Moretti is that he is so widely-read in
the field, and he makes points that most
people would have a hard time imagin-
ing,” Warren said. “For example, he
knows all of Balzac’s novels so well
that he could map Paris in the nine-
teenth century without a problem.”

Warren said the English faculty
chose Moretti as this year’s lecturer
because he is a “hot shot in the ﬁeld.”

“We always try to spread our lec-
turers around on different topics of lit-

Moretti to deliver Shannon-Clark Lecture

erary critics, either American or British
or someone who does something such
as Irish literature.”

Professors Suzanne Keen and Ed-
ward Adams were the ones who sug-
gested Moretti to the department, War-
ren said.

“Moretti’s writing is so witty and
charming that I carmot imagine his lec-
ture will not also be,” Warren said. “I
am expecting it to be a lot of fun.”

According to the Washington and
Lee news ofﬁce, an anonymous donor
funded the Sharmon-Clark lecture se-
ries to honor the memories of Edgar
Finley Sharmon, chairman of Washing-
ton and Lee’s Department of English
from 19l4 until 1938, and Harriet Mabel
Fishbum Clark, Shannon’s grand

See MORETTI, page 2

 

 

 

'gg_j> 1 E35 2892

Committee examines W&L harassment policy

Internet questionnaire sheds light on student dissatisfaction with university’s stand, yet no action needs to be taken

FROM STAFF REl’()R'l"S

Dean of the College Jeanine Stewart headed
a faculty committee that vindicated all aspects
of the W&L harassment committee, except for
its intake.

Acting President Laurent Boetsch created
the committee, which was active from Nov. 2001
until May 2002. Composed of administrators
and students, the committee examined W&L’s
sexual harassment policy.

“We interviewed past members of the
SFHB, peer counselors, University counse-
lors,” Stewart said. Her committee also sent

a broadcast e-mail directing students to an
Internet questionnaire.

The questionnaire revealed that many
students disliked the school’s sexual harass-
ment policy, though few had any direct con-
tact with it. The committee, however, after scru-
tinizing that body, found nothing amiss.

“(The complaints) had no focus,” Stewart
said. “The SFHB is unable to discuss details
of the case, and is unable to defend itself.”

The committee found fault not with the
handling but the initial reporting of sexual ha-
rassment cases. The new CAIR program, said
Stewart, will increase the availability of re-

sources, as well as increase complaintant’s
options. .

Students “can ﬁle a complaint, even if they
don’t want any further action,” Stewart said.
“They can meet separately (from their harasser),
or send a letter, or demand a written apology.”

After reaching its conclusions, Stewart’s
committee reported its ﬁnding to the Student
Affairs Committee, chaired by Dean of Students
David Howison.

“SAC gave its full and enthusiastic support
to Jeanine Stewart’s report as submitted to us,”
Howison said. “We made no changes (to the
committee ’s proposal).”

Epidemic settles in Lex

MosQUIroEs, from page 1

and 28. This information,
however, was only recently
released.

“The testing procedure is
very involved and takes sev-
eral days or weeks,” Larsen
said. “Plus, the Health Depart-
ment is backed up with so
many cases to test.”

Larsen said that even
though the virus is now tested
positive in the county,
chances are very unlikely for
a healthy person to become
infected from a mosquito bite.

“What can you do to ﬁght
the virus? Nothing,” Larsen
said. “Even in an epidemic area,
the maximum number of people
who receive symptoms from
the disease is [approximately]
10 out of1000.”

He also said that if the
virus does enter one’s blood-
stream that the chances of
symptoms occurring are slim.

“Unless you are dia-
betic, and are young and
healthy, the chances of
contracting serious compli-
cations from the virus are
very small.”

He also said that since
the ﬁrst frosts of winter will
be arriving soon, diminishing
the mosquito populations,
chances of contracting an in-
fection from the virus will be
even less.

Larsen did, however, rec-
ommend precautions against
mosquito bites.

“Mosquitoes are at-
tracted to the carbon dioxide
that we breathe out,” Larsen
said. “Since we can’t have

people stop breathing, you
should use something that
hides the carbon dioxide such
as a repellant with DEET.”

Other precautions include
wearing loosely ﬁtting cloth-
ing, light colors and removing
bodies of standing water.

“Mosquitoes can get
through tight clothing and still
bite you,” Larsen said. “Cer-
tain varieties also are attracted
by dark colors.”

The Health Department is
also taking measures to edu-
cate citizens on West Nile vi-
rus. Information is available
on the district website at http:/
/www.thehealthdepartment.org.

“West Nile can be a se-
rious epidemic,” Larsen
said. “But we have taken the
proper precautions to limit it
in the area.”

THE

- Subscribe to

  
  

a view of the larger world.”

Global poverty
expert to talk

SHRIVER, from page 1

Poverty, helped is friends with Shriver, and helped ar-
range his visit, Beckley said.

Shriver’s talk is sponsored by Contact, the Oﬁice
of the President and the Shepherd Program.

A graduate from Yale University and Yale Law
School, Shriver also served for ﬁve years in the U.S.
Navy. He ended his military service as a Lt. Commander
at the end of World War II.

“(Shiiver) has served as an international lawyer, admin-
istrator, ambassador and advocate for the poor,” said junior
Contact Vice-chair for Publicity Victoria Guroian. He has also
been George McGovem’s presidential running mate, presi-
dent of the Special Olympics and ambassador to France.

Authorized by Congress in 1961 to “promote world
peace and friendship,” the Peace Corps allows Ameri-
cans to preform tours of service in interested countries

Shriver, the receipient of 24 honorary university de-
grees, from universities. His awards include the Veteran
of the Year (1956), the National Father of the Year (1964),
the Franklin D. Roosevelt Freedom From Want Award
(1993), and the nation’s highest civilian honor the Presi-
dential Medal of Freedom (1994).

Lecture on 19th century Europe held tonight
MORETTI, from page 1

mother, who was a supporter of liberal education. The
English Department brings in one literary scholar each
year to speak with the W&L community about his work.

“It’s a great honor for a lecturer to be included in
this program,” Warren said. “It also gives the students

WLUR, from page 2

The job of retroﬁtting the Uni-
versity Center’s basement into an
operable studio then fell to Michael
Hurst, who was contracted as engi-
neer for the station.

With its new studio and more
powerful transmitter, WLUR is
ready to regain the respect and at-
tention of students. Already
planned are features like
Saturday’s “Anti-Headache Ma-
chine,” hosted by Doug Harwood,

   

J

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2002

 

iasiiaooks/rrexagiumpu

TESTING, TESTING. Listeners who turn their dials to 91.5 FM this week will hear
WLUR’s ﬁrst full schedule of operation since the station closed down in 2001.

WLUR debuts new programming .

and Sunday’s bluegrass show with
Dorsey Hostetter.

Students and faculty alike
were invited through Campus No- '
tices and flyers to apply for a
show, and it is hoped that the ﬁnal
schedule will reflect the

community’s diversity because, as ,, ‘

Tom White feels, campus radio is
less “formula driven” than com-
mercial radio.

The station’s programming is
also available to listen to worldwide ‘
at http://wlur.wlu.edu.

 

IA

D

-———C-l————CC—
3' JV

«ST

‘ Editors in chief

 

‘MONDAY, SErrEMBER 16, 2002”

  \l5l§i)liD1TORIAL

About the Phi’s coverage of Sept. 11

Last Wednesday was not your typical

  

2 W&L Wednesday night. The droves of

partygoers stayed off the streets, the fraternity
and country houses lay dormant and the major-
ity of students took at least some time off to
reﬂect upon a year like no other we’ve experi-
enced as a school, a community or a country.
Sept. 11 was and will be a day that affects
each one of us, even if we approach it in dif-
ferent ways. One student might have felt more
comfortable sitting with his or her friends around
the television last week, watching and remem-
bering what went through their minds one year

1‘ ago. Another could have found a quiet spot to

meditate, either alone or at the Candlelight Vigil
on the Front Lawn.
Likewise, the staff of The Ring-tum Phi

F had to choose its own way in covering the an-

niversary of the attackson America. Readers
might have noticed that we opted not to report
on every aspect of the then-upcoming date in

1 last week’s issue.

Part of it was a matter of timing. Had
we launched into an extravagant report of
Sept. 11 two days ahead of time, we would

.1 have felt like we were perhaps capitalizing

on emotions, not news.
Of course, such a decision ran the risk of
appearing callous or even malevolent toward

‘ everyone who was affected, either directly or

indirectly, by terrorism on our soil.

Our honest feelings were that The Tri-
dent, The News-Gazette and The
Rockbridge Weekly, with their Wednesday
publication dates, were far better suited to
cover Sept. 11 in a meaningful way, and it’s
our opinion that they did that job well.

We weren’t going to “pre—empt” everyone
else and outdo the other papers at the expense
of readers’ compassion for the bereaved.

Sept. 11 is a date that we share, like it or
not. The Phi extends its sympathy to the friends

“ and family of James Gadiel and Cmdr. Robert

Schlegel, both of whom lost their lives in a
senseless tragedy.

,. Website shows true W&L character

Many would say W&L is a community dedi-
cated to rumors, meddling and gossip. Everyone
knows who “hooked up” with whom and exactly

a‘ which freshman guy vomited in a fraternity hall-

way, often before the people themselves do.
This past week’s freshman website obsession
further prooves the point that W&L students have

u nothing better to do than gossip about and pre-judge

people based on petty rumor and predjudice.
While, granted, somesayings, pictures, etc. should
probablynotbeplacedpubliclyinacomrntmityas small

, asLexington,]hePhithir1l<sstudentsattlren1nnber

ﬁfteen-ranked lrberalarts institutioninthe countryoould
ﬁndsomethingbetterto dowiththeirtimethanobsess
over one person’s ﬁeedom of expression.

Thus: 2247 “hits” at print tirneup from mere hun-
dreds two days ago shows students should ﬁnd a new
hobby other than Internet character judgement.



Katie J. Howell
Matthew B. McDermott
Andrew A. Latimer
Imran Naeemullah
Catherine C. Guy
Jeremy Franklin
Dave Crowell

J eb Brooks

Paul Seifert
Thomas Worthy
Emily Barker
Henry Grimball

News Editor

Opinions Editor

Arts & Life Editor
Sports Editor

Asst. Sports Editor
Photo Editor

Business Manager
Asst. Business Manager
Advertising Production
Circulation Director

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editors in chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court defmi-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

Annual Subscription Rate: $35

THE. lilNG.—TUM Par

PINIONS
Liberal inanity thre

A recent edition of US. News and
World Report covers the issue of
hoaxes, and raises the question, Are
we more gullible in the information
age than we were a hundred years
ago? The answer is yes and no, but in
one sense, we as a people are cer-
tainly no less susceptible to inane
ideas than we ever were. Case in point:
events around the country and'the
world. The ridiculous is seemingly lim-
itless, but I will share with you a few
choice examples.

1) Certain morbidly obese indi-
viduals and their vulture-like trial law-
yers, fresh from their success against
the tobacco industry, are taking on
“Big Food” for knowingly serving a
product that could kill someone. The
lawsuit’s rationale is that since
McDonald’s, Burger King, Wendy’s,
and Kentucky Fried Chicken all serve
food that is obviously unhealthy, and
sell it at inexpensive prices using
catchy marketing, they are intention-
ally trying to sell vast quantities of a
lethal product. The plaintiffs fail to
realize one key point: even poor
people need to eat. Therefore, if the
only way to serve sizeable helpings
of food people enjoy (e.g., meat and
potatoes) at reasonable prices is in
hamburger and fries form, and if the
quickest and most efficient way of
cooking these is to deep fry them, then
the lawsuit has no merit. No fast food
restaurant accused in the lawsuit has
ever advertised itself
as being heart-healthy
or an alternative to
drinking Slim Fast all
day, so why should
they be forced to pay?

The only winners in this lawsuit
are greedy trial lawyers and senseless
liberals who will use this as yet an-
other precedent for destroying things
most people take for granted, whether
or not they are good for them. As John
Doyle of the Center for Consumer Free-
dom puts it, “(To win this suit, the plain-
tiffs must) convince ajury or a judge
that people are too stupid to feed them-
selves or their children. If people are
so stupid, should they be allowed to
vote or- go to work in the morning?”

 
  

   

RIGHT-WING RESPONSE
IMRAN NAEEMULLAH ‘05 Specifically,

  

ll\1R~\t’\INAEE1\lLIIAH
OPINIONS EDHOR
E.rur;NAEri»iurAH1@wrr.Er)u

1
1
1
i
1
1
1
1
l
1
1
1

ms Sanity
  Didvelthear 

2 A It's no joke.
He claims the food was too cheap so he ate too much?

Pnorocrxiirrm or WlWLCOi\llLll/HERFRIEDOM COM

Too HEAVY. As the Center for Consumer Freedom’s ad says, overweight people are
suing Big Food for causing their health problems and not watching out for them.

2) Robert Mugabe, dictator-for-
life of Zimbabwe, has taken in recent
months to reenacting the apartheid of
neighboring South Africa. This time,
however, the op-
pressed race is
white, not black.

Mugabe is seizing
the land owned by
white farmers, many of whom have in-
habited it all their lives, under the pre-
text of “racial equalization.” You see,
when Zimbabwe won its indepen-
dence from Great Britain in the l960’s,
most of the land was given to white
farmers. The reason at the time was
that the white farmers were the ones
who knew the best techniques and
could use the land most efficiently.
This is still the case, because since
independence, the (black-controlled)
government of Zimbabwe has consis-

tently failed to implement training pro-
grams for blacks to teach them how
to farm using modern techniques.
Despite their lack of knowledge,
Mugabe is seizing the land and giv-
ing it to these poorly trained farmers,
which will undoubtedly reduce food
output.

Forget about the rights of the
white farmers for the time being; what
about the famine that is currently en-
gulﬁng the country? Surely, with up
to half the population estimated to be
facing a food shortage, the last thing
Mugabe should be doing is reducing
his food supply. Perhaps the worst
thing about this all is that Mugabe is
not really helping the poor blacks,
since most of the land seized so far
has gone to cronies of Mugabe, army
generals and the like. Not exactly your

See INANITY, page 2

Democrats need to defeat Bush

Will this country ever be able to get the Bushes
out of power in Florida? Will Florida ever be able to
hold an election that is not the subject of vote recount-
ing controversy? Will the Bush family

ever be able to keep off the smack?

Who lcnows? But I do have to say
that Florida has been one naughty little boy.
So why is it so important to get J eb
Bush out of the gubernatorial seat in the
Sunshine State? Well, let us look at his claims and see
how they hold up to scrutiny. The GOP has been all over

celebrating the peninsula of orange juice as having the
lowest tax rate in ten years. The truth of the matter is
Florida was even harder hit by the economic fallout fol-

lowing September 1 1, seeing as so much

    

LEFT or CENTERF


of its money comes from tourism.

I don’t know about you, but when

your country has just been attacked by
an international terrorist organization,
dropping ﬁfty bucks for a day at Epcot
is not exactly my idea of a good time.

To characterize the feeling in Florida at that time, I’ll

Florida TV pulling hard for the Governor with more rolled borrow a line from The Orlando Sentinel. “During a boom-

dollar bill in his pocket than Andy Dick
(okay, all drug references aside... for
the moment).

A new ad claims that 400,000 new
jobs were created in the land of Mickey
under Bush. But were there bodies to
ﬁll them? The Bureau of Labor Statis-
tics report that under good old J eb,
unemployment has risen in God’s wait-
ing room by 14.3% while seasonally
adjusted unemployment has risen con-
sistently between 4-5% each year for
the last three years. Not as success-
ful as one would hope.

Republican Party ads also claim
that the state’s crime rate is at its low-
est in 29 years. Seemingly true, but
upon closer inspection, violent crimes
have become more frequent according
to reports from the Florida Department

of Law Enforcement. The murder rate is up nearly 1.5%, sex
offences their highest in ﬁve years, and robbery is up in
popularity for the ﬁrst time in more than a decade.

Not exactly J eb’s fault that people are misbehaving,
but with rates like these what can be down? Trafﬁc vio-
lations? This is clearly not the true success that the

GOP would have us believe it is.

And what is it about the Bush farnily’s inability to do
math? Or hire people that can do it for them? The GOP is

AWARD oF THE  Rep-Cynthia

    

Hiorocnbnrsvrrwuumrnami

    

Pnorocouirrrsyorurw/.c<xx1EcoM
CRYBABY. Janet Reno needs to stop

calling for a recount in Florida’s
primary and help the Democrats win.

ing economy, Bush cut taxes for the
wealthy, despite the recommendation
of economists who argued that he
should maintain a reserve fund in or-
der in the case of an economic down-
turn.”

Moreover, there is always the fun
of the drug problem. Just this past
week Governor Bush’s daughter
Noelle Bush was found to have crack
cocaine in her shoe by the workers at
her drug rehabilitation center.

The Miami Herald later reported
that Noelle Bush, 25, was not arrested
after a treatment center supervisor or-
dered the staff member who found the
drugs Monday night to rip up a sworn
statement and throw it away.

Police are still continuing this in-
vestigation. Neither the drug center

nor the Govemor’s office have commented any further
on the incident, but the police state they are curious as
to whether Noelle was given special treatment due to her
ties to her family. Personally, I doubt that this center
would want one of their best customers incarcerated.
So my advice to the Democratic Party is to tell

Janet Reno to shut up, stop counting chads and click-

win an election.

ing machines in Dade County, and get out there and

  
  

PAGE 3

University must
help to crackdown
0 dr riving

I’H<7rncoLnzrEn'or l¥’lW?’.F(XX;1J1(D.\!
NEVER AGAIN. Perhaps if the University reconsiders cermin
aspects of its sober driving policy, drunk driving accidents
may become a thing of the past.

Last year, student arrests for driving under the
inﬂuence (DUI) climbed to 20, despite the Safe Ride
and Traveller initiatives. Sober driving options were
offered in a streamlined system. DUIs don’t happen
because people
are inherently
bad; they just
happen because
people don’t make
a plan before they go out. However, a DUI is a seri-
ous crime that could result in personal injury or even
death. Here are three proposals that could help lower
the number of DUIs issued to W&L students.

1) Take away the parking passes of students
who are found guilty of drunken driving. Suspen-
sion of driving privileges is a common punishment
for DUI. Ideally, University sanctions should mir-
ror civil penalties in an effort to help students’ tran-
sition into the real world.

Since our governments have decided that driv-
ing privileges should be denied to those who can-
not drive responsibly, the university should sup-
port Virginia law by failing to accommodate those
who do not drive responsibly. If one had extenuat-
ing circumstances where a vehicle was necessary,
he or she could be given a freshman sticker to be
used for the rest of the probationary period to be
decided by the SJC.

2) Increased vigilance concerning sober driver
requirements at parties. Most students probably
do not want to drive while drunk. In fact, most DUIs
probably occur as a result of a poorly planned party
night. A designated driver should be identified be-
fore one goes out to party.

One of the negative effects of the University
Initiatives on Substance Abuse is the increasing
popularity of off-campus parties. Thus, the Uni-
versity should encourage students to register all
off-campus parties so that Traveller and other
“safety nets” can effectively respond, and strictly
enforce the mandatory sober drivers for on-cam-
pus parties.

3) Provide student-driven vans for Traveller.
There are many students that would gladly drive
vans for Traveller. Vans would be more efficient as
they could transport more people.

Vans would also allow students without ve-
hicles to volunteer to drive. If vans were pro-
vided, I think many more volunteer drivers (in-
cluding myself) would be available. However,
when one has to provide his vehicle, liability is-
sues loom large.

Also, if some drunken person vomits in
another’s car, that person has no way of restoring
his vehicle. I seriously doubt that any insurer would
want to be “the first line of defense” in case of a
Traveller—related claim and premiums would un-
doubtedly rise. If the university is serious about
encouraging this program, they should provide op-
portunities for as many people to share the respon-
sibility as possible.

The increase in DUIs probably resulted from
the increase in country parties. Although not ev-
eryone agrees with the University Initiatives on
Substance Abuse, they are probably here to stay.
Thus, we have to find a way to make country par-
ties less dangerous. Having a plan is the best way
to do so.

Identifying a designated driver, limiting al-
cohol intake, and watching out for friends is the
best way to prevent problems. However, students
will occasionally consume too much alcohol.
Thus, we must have effective safety nets that
will promote safety, personal responsibility, and
preserve dignity.

Limiting liability (as I think is being done when
an individual’s insurance company is “the first line
of defense”) should not be a priority. After all, no
one wants to have a DUI on his or her record.


<>N_A:HEsW@EiEliﬂ4

McKinney(D- 

 

Five-terrn Congresswoman Cynthia McKinney lost the Aug. 22 Democratic primary in Georgia, and with it,

her seat in the U.S. House of Representatives. When asked about her loss, McKinney pointed to the large amounts
of money that pro-Israel groups raised for her opponent. Her father, William McKinney, was even more outspo-
ken: “Jews have bought everybody. Jews. J-E-W-S.” Better reasons than a Jewish conspiracy may be ascribed to
her defeat. In 1991, McKinney made a pro-Iraq speech, whose anti-American themes caused many fellow Con-
gressmen to quit the chamber. More recently, McKinney criticized American foreign policy in a letter begging for
money from Saudi Arabian Prince Alwaleed bin Talal. Bin Talal had previously offered ten million dollars along
with a screed blaming the attack on the World Trade Center on America’s policy toward Israel. New York Mayor
Rudy Giuliani refused it. McKinney’s defeat was motivated by her attempt to purchase domestic political support
at the price of American foreign policy. Good riddance.

 

 

    

PAGE 4

INANITY: liberalism

INANITY, from page 3

 

 

INTERNATIONAL MENACE. Robert Mugabe, aracdilsqilgxcgtv/(iii:/conecﬁt
caticaturized as sucking the life out of his country’s poor.

typical or ideal farmers. Mugabe would be well advised to take
pointers from Nelson Mandela, who, after the liberation of South
Afiica, pleaded with educated whites not to ﬂee the country be-
cause its survival largely depended on their expertise not only to
train the black populace, but to keep the country running.

3) Saddam Husseir1’s sympathizers, who include U.N. Secu-
rity Council members China and Russia, are urging t.he United
States nottoactunilaterallyagainstIraq,butinstead, go through
the U.N. Of course, this is not to say that they merely want to
rubber stamp the process; rather, they do not want the U.S. to
invade because they have signiﬁcant ﬁnancial prospects at risk in
Iraq, namely, oil. President Bush has done them a favor (and
showed his commitment to involving the rest of the world in the
war on terror) by delivering a forceful speech to the U.N. this past
Thursday. The president made it very obvious: Iraq must either
immediately change its ways orface swiftand devastatingmilitary
action.

He certainly gave more than ample proof, citing, for ex-
ample, the fact that Saddam has ﬂagrantly violated U.N. resolu-
tions no less than sixteen times since the Gulf War. Why, then,
are other nations resisting by using the U.N. approach, which
will enable thernto veto war orat least support it but on their own
terms? Clearly, selﬁsh interests motivate them as is the case with
China and Russia. While I applaud President Bush ’s good faith
demonstration by going to the U.N., I certainly hope he will not
hesitate to act unilaterally should the rest of the world (save for
Great Britain) choose to act selﬁshly. Judging by his words and
actions so far, he will again prove his mettle.

4) The latest Florida election controversy is a sickening
example of political posturing. Having narrowly lost the Demo-
cratic primary election for governor ofFlorida, fonnerAttomey
General Janet Reno is attempting to get the votes in Miami-Dade
county recounted in the hope that she will be declared the win-
ner. However, the rest ofher party (including her opponent, Bill
McBride) are clamoring for her to stop calling for a recount, and
accept the election results as they stand. Funny, how when
dealing with their own, the Democrats are more than willing to
overlook a potential voting error, yet when faced with the pros-
pect of a Republican’s legitimately winning an election, they run
and scream and call foul play. Not only that, but there still exist
many liberals who contend that despite his obvious compe-
tence and honorable service to the country so far, George W
Bush is still an ‘illegitirnate’president. It’s irritating and childish,
yet we can take comfort in knowing that at any rate, Florida is
better off by not having Janet Reno as a potential governor.

While life is probably less interesting without the ludi-
crous, it would certainly help a great deal of people if the
above cases were to be righted. Here’s to hoping some good
comes about, and soon.

 


Letters to the Editor

Student locker facilities a disgrace

Dear Editor,

As a senior woman at Washington and Lee, I was
immensely thrilled upon returning to campus to discover
our new ﬁtness center. Like many students in our com-
munity, I belonged to Omega Fitness Center last year
because I believed the facilities at Washington and Lee
were inadequate for my exercise needs.

Since the new ﬁtness center opened on August 22, I
have visited it nearly every day and have been duly im-
pressed. Many of my fellow students with whom I have
spoken agree that both the quality and quantity of new
equipment is superb. The attendants are eager and help-
ful; the facility is clean and well kept. Thanks to dona-
tions and alumni contributions, the students, staff and
faculty that comprise the Washington and Lee commu-
nity are allowed access to this wonderﬁil facility. This
year, rather than join a ﬁtness center in town, my friends
and I prefer to workout together on our own campus free
of additional charges,

In addition to creating the new ﬁtness center, Wash-
ington and Lee also constructed new and improved locker
rooms equipped with air conditioning and a plethora of
lockers. Students, however, are unfortunately excluded
from the use of these locker room facilities; whereas, fac-
ulty and staff are admitted. I believe the students of
Washington and Lee are being treated unfairly. Wash-
ington and Lee spent a great deal of money on these
locker rooms from which the students of our community
are inappropriately banned. Furthermore, the grungy,
moldy, completely unkempt locker rooms the students
are forced to use, have not been revamped.

We, the students of Washington and Lee, are ma-
ture adults. We deserve the full use of all of the new
exercise facilities constructed for the use of the Wash-
ington and Lee community. After all, if the faculty, staff,
and students can workout and get sweaty together in
the same area, what reasonable basis can there be for the
same individuals not to be able to share the new facilities
where they can clean up after their exercise activities.
Under the present conditions, it would be an embarrass-
ment to our University if alumni were forced to use the
old locker rooms, which are dank, steamy and feature
standing water, and which are a far cry from the high
level attention and detail spent on making the new ﬁt-
ness center and faculty/ staff locker rooms.

I ask each student to contact our new ﬁtness center
and ﬁle a verbal or written complaint against this unfair
treatment we are being shown. I trust that, if a signiﬁcant
number of us complain about being excluded from the
new locker rooms, our university will quickly change this
policy. To segregate the students from the rest of the
community is unjust, and this type of exclusionary policy
does not reﬂect the values that come to my mind when I
think of Washington and Lee.

Sincerely,
Emery Ordernann ‘03

New commons should include a post ofﬁce

Dear Editor,

I am an alumnus of Washington and Lee, Class of
’45, who chose to return to the area in later years. I reside
just over the city line in Rockbridge County. A few months
ago I dispatched a letter to the Mayor of Lexington con-
taining remarks conceming the local post ofﬁce similar
to those that follow. I indicated I was not in his constitu-
ency. However, the post ofﬁcer serves a wide area. I also
indicated I was surprised the local weekly newspaper
had not picked dup on the visible problems. I left a copy
of my letter to the mayor at the publisher ’s officer, just a
block from the post ofﬁce, with no forthcoming reaction.

My letter expressed concern about the location of
the post ofﬁce, parking problems, lack of access to the
outside mail drop, and often long lines at two windows
for service, etc. However, my main purpose in writing the
letter was to strongly urge a sub-post ofﬁce on the W&L
campus incorporated within present new construction
to alleviate what can only get worse. Complaints about

The Phi
congratulates its
journalist
colleagues at
WLUR on the
, reopening of the
station. We wish
them luck in their
endeavors.

Spring Break 2003 with STS
Americas #1 Student Tour
Operator
Sell Trips cam cash Travel Free
Infomration/Reservations
1-800-648-4849 or
www.ststravel.com

 

Grand Opening September 23-28

W&L Faculty and Staff

Daily Specials
Monday 25 % off T-shirts

   

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2002‘

the local post office are oﬁen heard. However, service at
the two windows is normally courteous as personnel
contend with the pressures and periodic chaos.

I am sure the local post ofﬁce is pressed for space.
Most colleges I know have postal service for students
oﬁen located near dining, snack, and bookstore facili-
ties. VMI obviously has such campus service. It’s unfor-
tunate the post ofﬁce is in the location it occupies. I was
told by one official that city and Washington and Lee
officials had discussed the matter, but had opted to stay
as is. I was told that the post ofﬁce provided an impor-
tant contact between students and the general public. I
was also told it helped nearby downtown merchants gain
customers. I was somewhat surprised by what I consid-
ered thing reasoning.

I provide this letter to you wondering how students
would react. Maybe my overall reasoning is thin!

Sincerely,
E. Dean Finney ‘45

Diversity initiatives need strengthening

Dearliditor,
I am one of the facilitators who led discussions of the
video Skin Deep for freshmen during orientation.. I wish to
address the negative reactions I witnessed, and to ask the
ﬁeshmen to take the leadership role in helping to make future
diversity orientations for freshmen more meaningﬁil.

As a result of several racist incidents a couple of years
ago, W&L needed to take a strong stand in order to continue
to attract and retain quality students. One such effort towards
takingastandwas training 18 studentspriortofalltermof2000
to present Anti-Defarnation League materials. I had the privi-
lege of participating with that group in 40 hours of training in
diversity issues and facilitation skills. The ADL facilitatorteam
then presented workshops during freslnnan orientation. We,
not unexpectedly, were the target of criti-
cism ﬁom ﬁeshmen who felt that the exer-
cise was awaste of time. However, we con-
tinued to work with various campus
groups on request.

This year, the video Skin Deep was
chosen to be the jumping point of discus-
sion. I am not familiar with the particulars
of how the video came to be selected, but
I agreed in principle with the narrower fo-

diversity. In the space of two hours with
the freshmen, we simply could not get very
far beyond the top introductory layers of
diversity education if we encompassed all

of diversity as a whole. We have in o11r
arsenal a really powerful video that truly stimulates the intel-

lect. However, we cannot jurrrp to that level immediately; we

have to start with less threatening exercises that build enough

participant harmony and trust so that discussions remain safe

and useful. We also have to present exercises that engage

participant interest and help them feel that they have a stake in

the discussion. When we are lirrrited to the introductory mate-

rial by time and thus do not reach the deeper levels, we do run

into the danger of seeming superﬁcial. Nevertheless, the intro-

ductory rnaterial by itselfcan be useful.

VV1th Skin Deep, we were able to explore in greater depth
one aspect of diversity, allowing us to explore the the topic of
racism, and by extension diversity, more meaningﬁilly. I tried to
help all segments of students in my own group of ﬁeshmen
feel acknowledged by explaining that we realize diversity is
about more than racial differences but we simply could not
give all such aspects meaningful treatment in a short amount
oftime. Intruth, we were still only able to scratch the surface of
racism.

However, as a freslnrran orientation activity, the discus-
sion was not intended to provide a complete course in racism.
Rather, it was intended to provoke thought about the subject
and encourage freshmen to incorporate these issues into their
studies in the next four years. It also was intended to create a
level of awareness that a variety of cultures converge on cam-
pus when a ﬁeshman class is formed. We needed to help avert

If diversity education was planned
for some other point in the year,
with adequate time alloted for
deeper reﬂection, it might seem
much more relevant to the

freshman who has lived for several
°l1S°I1fa9iSmthan1he20001°°°US0na110f months in the dormitories and has

in his or her classes explored
cultural topics.

as simple as it may ﬁrst seem. With these goals, we probably
seemed to many a silly “love your neighbor and let’s all get
along’ ChOI'l1S. We are in fact far from idealistic. We know

5

people will dislike each other, roomates will ﬁght, and so on We ~

simply bring to you a perspective from which conﬂicts may be
viewed Ifa conﬂict arises, awareness of possible roots in cul-
tural differences may lead to a resolution. We also represent a
sincere, as opposed to a politically conect token, effort from
the administration to address problems that we know exist on
campus. We are, after all, not immune from problems in the
world as a whole that have their roots in intolerance. Further-
more, we hope that students leave Washington and Lee truly
able to handle the world at large, and that includes having
diversity skills.

In particular, we hope for Washington and Lee commu-
nity members to understand that many diversity-related prob-
lerns are unconscious in nature. I heard many freshman claim
that little racism and such exists today in the world I heard
ﬁeshmen claim it is a simple nranner for us to all get along on
campus. It was not my role as a facilitator to preach; thus I
deliberately kept my responses to those comments brief and
geared toward bringing more student viewpoints into the con-
versation. Here I wish to offer a more extended view Certainly,
there may be fewer overt incidents of racism We are thankfully
more tolerant as a society of racial difference than we were in

11

J

the Jim Crow days. However, we as humans seem to have a I

psychological tendency to put people into categories, and
much of this happens without much awareness on our part.
While not all categorizing is bad, some of it may lead to inter-
personal conﬂict. We need to become aware of the conﬂict-
causing categorizing we do, much of which is detennined by a
combination of familial and societal programming. We are not
threatening anyone with a label of “racist”; accusation and
blame is not the point of diversity education.

However lofty and commendable our diversity educa-

tion goals may be, perhaps the freslnnen are right that we are I

not going about this in the best manner. Perhaps freshman
orientation is not the best time for this sort
of exercise. Placed among the potpourri of
requiredpresentations, and with limited time,
such exercises will oﬁen appear to fresh-
men as a token to multiculturalism, a chance
for the administration to preach a set of feel-
good values to the newcomers that “of
course everyone knows”. If diversity edu-
cation was plarmed for some other point in
the year, with adequate time alloted for
deeper reﬂection, it might seem much more
relevant to the freshman who has lived for
several months in the dormitories and has
in his or her classes explored cultural top-
rcs.

Unfortunately, it is our experience that
voluntary discussions are not well-attended, and often we
wind up preaching to the choir instead of reaching students
who have not given much thought to these issues. If we
wished to truly make a difference, attendence would have to
required at that event later in the year. Perhaps it is still pru-
dent to have a discussion during orientation so that ﬂesh-
rfren are prepared for the culture clashes. Perhaps diversity
education should just be built into the curriculum and not
discussed as a separate designated event to avoid the ap-
pearance of “token-ness”. I don’t know the right way to go
about this. I challenge the freshmen who felt that this year’s
format was a waste of time and “fake”- I overheard the phrase
“ a piece of crap”- to think about what would be a better and
more meaningful approach and to bring those suggestions
to the attention of administration and facilitators.

In this vein, I must warn that many ofthe original 18
facilitators have since graduated. My class, which will gradu-
ate in June, contains the last of the facilitators. We have
learned many facilitation skills from the ADL training that
enable us to work with any discussion, regardless of whether
or not we are using ADL exercises. We will need to ensure
that the skills are passed on to future classes. It will be up to
this year’s freshmen, sophomores, and juniors to guide the
ﬁiture of peer-led diversity education at this university. Please
rise to the challenge.

25% off entire purchase
Tuesday 25% off Hats and Visors
Wednesday 25% off Sweatshirts
Thursday 25% off Shorts and Long Pants
Friday 25% off Jackets
Saturday 25% off Golf and Oxford Shirts

Register to VI/in Nickle Creek Tickets
Theater at Lime Kiln Saturday, October 5

15 W. Washington St.
464-3000

problems of culture clash by making freshmen aware that dif- Sincerely,
ferences do exist and that respect for those differences is not Julie Fitzer ‘03 1 '
i
i
Let Us Cater Your Next Fraternity Party Or Tailgate ,,
On Our Premises Or At The Location Of Your Choice
With A Customized Menu To Fit Your Budget!
Call Us For Our 5 Foot Italian Sub!!! Dinner Entrees for Small and Large Groups: '
Available In Vegetarian Or Meat Veggi Lasagna

With Your Choice Of Ingredients: Half Tray (serves 8-10) $29.95

Fresh Mozzerella Full Tray (serves 18-20) $55.95
Provolone Baked Ziti 5

Cheddar Cheese Half Tray (serves 8-10) $25.95

Prosciutto Full Tray (serves 18-20) $45.95

Capicolla Eggplant Parrnigiana

Soppressata Half Tray (serves 8-10) $29.95

Salami Full Tray (serves 18-20) $55.95 '
Ham Sausage Pepper

Mortadella Half Tray (serves 8-10) $31.95

Turkey Full Tray (serves 18-20) $59.95
Grilled Zucchini Salad I

Roasted Red Peppers Half Tray (serves 8-10) $14.95

Marinated Mushrooms Full Tray (serves 18-20) $27.95

Marinated Artichoke Penne Vodka

Red Onion Half Tray (serves 8-10) $25.95

Lettuce Tomato Full Tray (serves 18-20) $45.95 5*
Our Own Pesto Spread or Mayo
*One Week Notice is Needed For All Sub Orders
Serving Sunday Brunch Buffet From 11:30-2:30 All You Can Eat: $9.95
Call us at 540-464-5500 ,
Banquet Facilities On Premises Up To 200 People

A

D

I

I

 

 

IIII3 RlNG—’fUt\l PI

TAGE 5

Freshman class
learns Its ABCS

BY LISA BARITTA
sTAI~'I«‘ WRITER
1

I used to wake—up to my favorite
radio station. Now, I wake up instead
to the horrendous screeching of
construction equipment‘ immediately

‘outside my window.

After only being here for a couple
of weeks, I have already learned that
adjustment is key to making it in this “real

“world” setting. The living arrangements,
added freedoms, and overall lifestyle are
clearly established in preparation for the
future and are unlike anything we
freshmen have ever before experienced.

‘ Along with all the different buildings,
the people here are as diverse as I have
ever seen, in values, preferences,
ethnicities, and talents. As a result, some

‘ people are in the throes of culture shock.

starting the real work, and I think most
of the freshmen are still realizing the
magnitude of their classes. For the first
time, every professor is exceptionally
knowledgeable in his or her subject;
some of them even go to the extreme
of writing the book for their course. It

is time to stop sleeping through class,‘

crack open that hundred dollar book,
and prepare for a future in which we
will no longer be able to “swipe it
home.”

The first weeks ofbeirrg a college
freshman is entirely overwhehning in
every aspect, especially at a university
where traditions are strictly laid as the
foundation. I ﬁnd myself learning
something new everyday, including
the Greek Alphabet. “Dubyanell” is
rightﬁ1l1yranked#1forGreeklife. One
would be amazed at the number of

“Coming to phone calls to
W&L from New freshman dorms
Yorkis like taking ADJUSTMENT IS THE KEY d u r i n g

' ' orientation
‘:d1111rII)tf§. aI‘tf(s:ee1r%i: “TO MAKING 1: IN THIS week. It turns
like everyone here REAL WORLD SETTING out that the
has aTexas ﬂag, a upperclassmen

bright pink polo
,1 shirt, and plaid shorts,” said freshman
Kate Zawyrucha.

Upon first setting foot onto
W&L’s beautiful campus, everyone
was immediately friendly and helpful

‘ in enduring the ever-exciting activity
of “unloading the van.” After a week
of orientation activities ranging from
speeches from administration to
discussions about substance abuse,
I gathered that most freshmen were
ready to do at least one if not all of
the following: get started with the real
college life, party hard, or borrow

it President Burrish’s plaid jacket.

“Freshman Orientation is like WLU
on crack. It’s everything that is amazing
about WLU jammed together into one
week,” said freshman Jenny Scott.

Along with starting college comes _

have had “the
face book” since before move-in day.

“ .......... ..Party. . .<cough>. . .,”
was all that ﬁeshman Paul Pennell had
to say on W&L’s ‘extracurriculars’.

Coming to a school renowned
for both academics and “lots of beer
and hard liquor,” it is hard to know
just what to expect. It is rumored
that this years’ freshman class is
one of the brightest and talented
that W&L has seen in awhile; let’s
hope we all learn time management
skills. High expectations are held
above our heads, or so we were told
throughout orientation week. I
guess it will all come together
through experience.

I mean, who needs sleep
anyway? “A is for academics, B is
for beer, both of those reasons are
why we are here!” Anonymous.

Life is good...

write for the  Mondays at 5

 

RTS Br IE

BY TRAN KIM
sTAI~‘I«' WRITER

The Lexington community now moves to a
dilferent beat with the emergence of a new West Aﬁican
drum and dance group. Taught by Laura Rich and
Terrance Henderson respectively, these classes will meet
for one Saturday every month through fall term.

Organized by local resident Mirabai McCleod,
and coordinated through the Dean of Students Office,
this project initially began as a whimsical desire from
Senior Medhanite Tekle who simply wanted to learn
African dancing techniques. W&L funds the program
to allow students to take the classes free of charge
while W&L employees and their family members pay
a $10 fee and non-W&L participants pay a $20 fee.

Each Saturday morning from 10- l 2,
participants beat various rhythms on the genuine
African drums provided by Rich. From 1:30-2, a
children’s drum class is held at $2.50 for W&L
children and $5 for non-W&L children. Then from
2-4, participants are led by Henderson in the
movements of traditional West African dances.

Held in the srriall gym in Doremus, participants
in theAﬁican Drum class learn three different striking
techniques called a base, tone, and slap, which are
used to create the various rhythms on a diernbe, or
standing, drum. A base is made by striking the
center of the drum head and removing it quickly to
allow for a deep resonance. A tone strike is created
by swiftly tapping the edge of the drum. Slaps are
made by striking the drum edge with the tips of the
ﬁngers while the heel of the hand hits the rim.
Students also had a chance to play the various
horizontal drums called the kenkeni, the sangban,
and the doundoun. These drums are struck using a

 

 

 

Drums sound

C:\’l’HE.RlNE C. GIT
ARIS&LIIE EDITOR
FIIIAII.-<;IYr@\RIIII§DI‘

 

wooden drum stick and hold a Guinea bell on top
that struck simultaneously with the drums.

For first-timers, playing can be a challenge due
to the intricate rhythmic patterns. Also, the repeated
hand strikes can be quite painful. However with
practice, Rich says the pain will diminish while the
rhythms become intuitive. “The secret to playing
the drum is to enjoy it,” Rich said.

While enjoyment is also crucial to African
dancing, the key is to let go. Henderson explains,
“[African dancing] comprises of very natural
movements inspired by natural organic stuff.” Unlike
ballet, tap, and other forms of popular dance that
focus on intricate choreography and ﬂexibility, the
emphasis in African dance lies more on movements
natural to the body and inherent to everyday life.
More happens when you let go,” Henderson said.

Senior Patrice Wedderburn attests to the importance
of moving naturally. She said, “It was an amazing
experience. I felt in touch with my body and it was very
natural. You just go with the rhythm of the music.”

The class began with a series of warmup exercises
to stretch the entire body to make it more conducive to
the dance movements. For half an hour, participants
stretched body parts ranging from the ankles to their
ribcages to their shoulders. After warming up, students
learned various dance steps I J

These movements involved leaps, hand motions,
and hip thrusts, among others. Though students learn
particular steps, these steps are meant to be modiﬁed by
each dancer to suit his or her mood and interpretation of
the drum beats. The emphasis is placed on feeling the
beatsratherthanondancingthe stepsinapreciserriamier.

Both Rich and Henderson bring artistic traditions
that have endured for hundreds of years. These classes
enable them to share a unique and interesting history

‘Mom, SEPTEMBER 16, 2002

   

I jLIST WANT To BANG ON THE DRLM ALL DAY: Top: The
West African drum class learns to play. Bottom:
Professor Wﬂson shows off his new skills.

of a culture which they respect and embrace. For the
Lexington community, it is an opportunity to expand
its cultural horizons and experience a little bit of a part
of the world about which little is known.

The next class will be held on Saturday, October
5. Everyone is welcome to join and no experience is
necessary. If interested, please contact Miraibai
McCleod at 540-462-1760 or rr1irabai@lycos.com.

 

  
   

 

 

   

  
 
  
  

 

C 0
~  Spanish House begins the ﬁestas
BY I\l.IiTIIE\I= IVICDERMOTT 7 3 
EDlTOR—l.\'—CHEIl’
I FAST FRIENDS. Sophomores I
Melissa Talbert and Caitlin The Spanish House holds twice weekly dinners in the Dining 3
Hagan are among the few who Hall. Attendance at the “Mesa hispanica,” or Spanish table, is
braved the inclement Weather to strongly recommended for members of the house.
. ﬂ enjoy Satuday’s tailgate. -“We decided that everyone had to eat, so it was a good place to
' practice Spanish,” said senior Heather Knorr, Resident Advisor for
the Spanish House.
The reserved table is located at the rear of the D-Hall, and opens
at six o’clock.
is ‘ On Sundays, students
(SOCIAL PROGRAMo WILL) can bring their own food
CREATE AN ENVIRONIVTENT to the Spanish house, and
IN WHICH SPANISH HOUSE share an 8:00 pm supper
A RESIDENTS AND NON— Wlth resldente 
RESIDENTS MAY PRACTICE we3{“:heV;::3;e:£1j’}'1osi IEE BRooI;x‘/ T/JR Rm I/IIP/J1.
— : BENVENUT ~~ .2 ‘!ThS ‘hH.,l d IEA;
SIGN OF THE TIMES. ThOSC E  .  Cooking lessons‘ tlie  IS h:I'I1:a:::. I'1C\C7:7u::Og)CC;:F:l‘l.1cC)l:I'1tSE.: V6 In
naughty Cadavers again leave 0 N PRE5sURE_FREE’ ‘We have Stljdents from
4. their calling throughout Campus GRADE‘FREE REALM-  (Werlne ‘:l:°nd1nrr1e(SP3r1' “We didn’t warrtto compete with (the Fihn Society’s) movies,” Knorr said
PROF . ELLEN MAYO CK 1311) H011Se, She Saki ‘There “So students can see our movie on Friday, and see the other one on Saturday.”
are lots oroppornnnnles-” These social programs have many goals. One is “to create an
The ﬁrst Cooking night is Sept 25 - The next is oer 30- Both environment in which Spanish House residents and non-residents
b ‘, begin at 6300 Prn- may practice their language skills and interact in a natural way in a
Programming does not reVolVe 5o1e1Y around rood- On alternate pressure-free, grade-free realm,” said Spanish Professor Ellen Mayock.
Fridays, at 8 Pm, the Spanish nouse Win Soreen rnoVre5~ Speaking Spanish is mandatory in all common areas of the Span-
—»—v~ —4»4» — —~ 4- ish House, which includes its kitchen and living and dining rooms.
HOME BASE. No longer a futon outlet, “Some professors will probably give extra credit,” Knorr said.
VI Nelson and Randolph Streets stands the TUEg1),\y_g, THUMDAYS; Weekly dinners at the D-Ha11 Mayock, who is currently on sabbatical, agrees. ' I
campaign headquarters of Ben Cline, \y/EDNESDAYS, monthly Cooking lessons at the Spanish House “In the future, I’ll certainly award extra credit to beginning and
Republican candidate for the sixth district FRIDAYS, bmnomhly movies at the Spanish House intclelrrnlfcliate students who devote time to the House,” Mayock saidci
of the Virginia House of Delegates. Cline S ,  . h S . h H “I’ li e y assume that my upper-level students are getting involve
‘ is runnin' g against Democratic candidate UM)“ 5' Weekly dinners at t 6 paws Ouse out of sheer desire and enthusiasm, rather than for extra credit.”
Mimi Elrod. _ 9 _/kn h 1 d The residents of this year’s Spanish house are Mateo Caballero,
J qmmom em” on @W u‘ C u Rosine Kouamer1,Arnina Elgouacem, DiyaVohra, Vicky Stanharn, Heather
“MTTTTTTF "" ”‘* Knorr, Maria Eu enia Games, Kaela Harmon and Ina Ceselinova.
g
2 ' LOCAL CINEMA VALLEY VIEW GRANDE
exl n g  n 200 w. Main, Charlottesville Austin Powers- 2:45, 5; 10, 7:45, 10:15 O a n 0 e
Barbershop-1:15 3:35 6:45 9:15 . .
. . I ’ ’ .’ Road to Perdition- 1, 6:30
THE TROUBADOUR ‘The Good Girl- 2.30, 4.45, 7245,10 Blue Crush-2:15,4:45, 7:30, 10:05 SeW1.ngSara_2:30 5:15 7:45 10:10
# 9 /20_ In the Bedmom_ 7.30 My Big Fat Greek Wedding-2:45, 5, 7:30, 9:45 Citybythe Sea- l:45,4:l5,6:50,9:25 SignS_ 1_ 15 4 7_40 16
V 9/21_Inthe BedI00m_ 7.30 OneIIIourPhoto-12A:f155,44:630,7,9:15 :<}¢lardotcom- 2:35, 5,7:25,9:50 Spy  2_’1_’4(i 3f55 7 9.20
 - 0SSeSS10n— : , , 245,9 e Good Girl- 2,4235, 7, 9:45 . ' ’ : ’ _’ " . . .
 ‘ - Tee STATE‘ Road to Perdition- 1:45,4:15 6:45, 9:30 TheMasterofDisguise—2:45,5,7:25,9:45 Ste?lmgHWd-1-10:3-4597-1°=9-3°
City by the Sea-7:10 ’ u _ , Swimfan- l:30,3:30,7:05,9:l0
a I n . . One Hour Photo-2, 4.20, 7.20, 10 .
-‘- My Blg Fat Gfeekweddmg 7:15 a r 0 e I e Possession— 2:40 5' 10 7'30 10' 10 Und1Sputed_3:30’ 9:15
Signs- 7:00 ' ’ ' ’ ' ’ ' XXX- 1, 3:40, 6:50, 9:30

 

 

  Review.

PAGE 6

 
 

 

W;-r;i:_\i 

RTS & LIEE

travel through

time in the Pink Cadillac

BY MCQUEEN CALVERT
STAFF WRITER

Just a short 10 minute drive up Highway 1 1, past the

V. Lexington City limit takes you back 5 decades to the 50’s

diner known as the Pink Cadillac.
It can be spotted from over a mile away, due

. to its cheery facade of bright pink paint and 50’s

signs.
The interior is filled with Rock ’n’ Roll

«paraphernalia and Elvis memorabilia with plenty of

classic tunes in the background from all of our favorite
Oldies bands. _

The menu has a decent array of food choices,
but I would recommend a simple hamburger. This
seems to be the most popular item on the list, served
with French fries, which are excellent. Most of the

THE. KING. Elvis (inset) and his pink Cadillac.

other items on the menu are decent in taste, but for a
good ‘old burger, this is the place in Lexington to
visit.

The service is not spectacular, but the environment is
deﬁnitely impressive. For instance, there is even a separate
ice cream parlor type area for those craving the vast
selection of desserts.

For a weekend dinner, this is a great place to go if
you have transportation and if the other eateries in the
limited walking distance are getting to become too
repetitive.

Next time you and your friends decide to dine
out, instead of insisting on returning to the always
popular Salernos for the twentieth time, try the Pink
Cadillac.

Elvis will be waiting.

}Ul(“$(lX,ll(IESY()l7WUWiL1ll\“]-ilI\'H{>i(JIK)3\J,.‘\\l)li()\il1'il'DJEl'/lAl{l§m(C-\Dlll ALHli\ll.

Lexington. Virginia

 Fri., September 20

7:30 pm.

Slaid is,“...one of the finest

' I psingemongwriters from Texas.”

NY Times

 463-3074

     wwwmsnremrume tuna

DOUBLE STUDENT DISCOUNT-

Take 530 oifthe regular firstjump
price with this ad until May 2003i

 

(540) 943-6587 or

1 (877) 348-3759

(877) DIVE-SKY

- Best Aircraft

‘ - M031: complete Instructional program-

‘ Fastest growing skydiving center on the East coast because:

our Twin Engine Turbine Aircraft safety carries 22 Jumpers over 13,000‘

Others claim to use It, but we use the official USPA training program to the fullest since It was

‘ developed here at Skyciiveorange for the United States Parachute Association.

- - Our equipment-

- we have the experience! -

Compare our equipment to other Drop Zone's- Our parachute: are 100% equipped with state ofthe art
CYPRES Automatic Activation back up devices, others use cheaper one: to save money.

i No other Virginia Drop Zone routinely puts up over 300,|umps most Saturdays, sometimes over 400
7 jumps a day. We are doing over 17,000 jumps iyear here at Virginia's skycii

 
 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2002'

Happy Birthday, Dave Croweill i
From your friends 2 1
At the Phi!
‘I

New \7c:2iirl?*iU'nii?‘éE‘§ity iii*§tii.li1él yeea‘a*rae§aeW;?a“E«s

    
  
   
 

a 4    pa...  

New York Uméve-airy is an affimmsi action/aqua! eopoztunity instimeiaac

For more irsformationt www.nymedulabroadlgiobai
Tel: 212.993.4433; E-mail: studyabroad@nyu.e<;§u

   

ving center, Skydive Orane.

 

.;~,.:._.,..,,,___ . ._ ._ .-
I
 °
-;_‘-:5:
I \

U

  

ringserrd

WWV".ringsendmusic.con

  @Javainthe G.H.Q.   .

—   ‘Monday, 09.16.02, 9PM   i

 

 

 

    
 

"I
.llﬁ'lll.~;\l\'l"‘l{»\.?\‘=l\'l.lT\’
S1oiusIli>rit>it

,, Emil.’l'lt-t\l§l_l?vl@?\illIlJ)tI

 ilh.s.<.j: in

M(.)Nl).~l‘r', Sl§l”l'l.i..\—IBl3R I6, 2002

 op km
Blue Jays score in final

r minute, OT to hand Will a
loss to open 2002 season

injrziuzin‘ FRANKLIN
>7l’Oll'l'S l€i)lT('ill

ﬁ.

Senior quarterback Rob Femand

threw a game-tying touchdown pass

A with 15 seconds left in regulation and

then scored on a l-yard touchdown

run in overtime to lead Johns

Hopkins over Washington. and Lee

I 21-14 in the season opener Saturday
, at Wilson Field.

W&L senior tailback Chris Sullivan
 rushed 33 times for 152 yards and a
, score for the Generals. Though

‘Sullivan was disappointed, he said
, that next. week’s game at Guilford ~-
7 W&’L’s Old Dominion Athletic Con-

I ference opener ---~ will take the Gener-

. als’ minds off of the loss.

“With this being the first game,

" you always want to open the season

with a win." Sullivan said. “It’s a dis-

appointment, but in another sense it

it‘ is non-conference. so we haven’t put

I ourselves back, We just got :1 learn-
. ing experience, basically.”

" F ernand ﬁnished l‘)~of-34 for 239

yards, but he earned the chance to be
. the hero almost by accident. The se-
; nior Blue Jay was pulled in the third
quarter after throwing three intercep-
tions, including two to junior Ted

BY MICHAEL Liar:
u>orui;< \‘t’lll‘l‘l:‘.ll

Snyder hel o s W&L athletes hal

Afternoon creeps across the

Washington and Lee campus. As stu-

1 dents attend their late classes, the

ttniver.si.ty's sports teams take to the

it practice ﬁelds. With the brutal colli-
sions of helmets, the clash of sticks

and the pounding of the turﬂ the Gen-

‘ crals prepare for battle each day, with

one-unfortunately inevitable result: I

injuries.
Alas. in the ferocity of their prac-
,; tice and games, W&L athletes do get
beaten up. Luckily. expert help is there
to help prevent and heal those inju-
ries -— in the athletics training room,
run. by Head Athletic Trainer Holly

8‘ Snyder.

“The injuries we see around here
are the same that you’ll see at any
Division I school,” Snyder said. “The

3 only difference here is that we don‘t
have quite the same caliber of athletes.
They’rc workingjust as hard, though,
and that means they’ll get hurtjust as

I much.”

‘ Snyder attended Indiana Univer-

. sity for her undergraduate work, at-
taining her bachelor of science degree
there. She then attended the Univer-

‘ ,, sity of'\/irginia for her graduate work,

. obtaining her masters in education
" there.

While at U Va, she worked at Wash-
 ington and Lee as a graduate assis-
*;- tam, and was formally hired here in

} 1999 as the associate head trainer. Last

j summer. then-llead Trainer Tom Jones

 entered phased retirement, and Snyder
‘{ was hired to replace him.

I-lers was a busy summer  she

Matlitt. and returned only when jun-
ior George Merrell was injured.

The Generals looked strong defen-
sively until the final two .lohns
Hopkins drives. W&L coach Frank
M iriello believed that his defense wore
down at the end of the game.

“They were out there a long time.
that’s for sure," he said. “Our offense
played a lot better this year than they
did last year and kept us offthe field a
little longer. But we had too many min-
utcs out there, and that’s going to
cause some problems mental break-
downs, physically you can’t match up.
We just got tired."

The two teams played to a score-
less draw in the first half, thanks in
part to Mafiitt’s two picks. Thejunior
safety intercepted Fernand at the
W&L, l0-yard line in the first quarter‘
and at his own 13 in the second, put-
ting an end to two long Blue Jay pos-
sessions.

Johns Hopkins drovc 48 yards to
the Generals’ 10 in the final minute of

’the first half, but Matt Castagna
missed a 27-yard field goal as time
expired.

W &l. came out strong to open the
second half. as junior quarterback
Peter Dean marched the Generals
down the field. Dean hit sophomore
tight end Patrick Ncuman for a 23-yard
strike down to the Blue Jays‘ 9-yard
line and tossed an 8~yard touchdown
to sophomore Taylor Callaham two
plays later.

ALI. IN A oAv’s WORK. \VaSIllI1gl't.)t1 and Lee l lead Arlilcric
Trainer l-‘lolly Snyder, left, \u'z1ps flit‘ ankle of senior Katlilccn

married Bryan Snyder, head volleyball
and women's basketball coach, on
June 15. and took over as head ath-
letic trainer on July 2. Her first task
was to fully staff the training room,
which proved to be quite a task, but a
fulﬁlling one.

“Heather Grant and Jason Vcreb
have taken over as assistant trainers.
and Brandon May is around as an in-

 


7‘
T .
I Monk and Wornens -Sportswear,
_j Outerwear, and Fly,Fishing Products

f Now Avarlablhe in Lexington!
;,  7 . A I Recl.'I‘lme Fly Fis,hl:g&Ontlittcr

J‘ * V ‘ I 23 Wgstwnhlngton 8:.

< Lexington, VA 24450

462-6106 A V

‘ www.r¢cltimcflyfishing.com

s rallies t off WL in overtime

ll: ll

 

(4-lit and sophomore linebacker l .lcn1l \‘i»’ilsoi1ino\*cin to tackle

Junior Whit Whitfield made his ﬁrst
career extra-point attempt to give W&L
a 7-0 lead with 9:43 left in the third.

That score held until the 5:38 mark
of the fourth quarter. when Johns
Hopkins sophomore Adam Cook
scored on a ‘}-yard run to knot the
game at 7-7. ’

tern." Snyder said. ‘‘I’m very happy
with the staff. They‘re all excellent
workers.“

Snyder noted that the training room
is a little small for the number of ath-
letes they serve. but that the facility
is of good quality. “We do occasion-
ally liave athletes sitting on the floor
receiving treatment. but thcre’s a pro-
posal fora new room in the works. so

W&L responded with an eight-
play drive that began from their own
24-yard line. The possession included
a 30-yard pass from Dean to Sullivan
on a third-and-l2 play. and Sullivan
punched it in from 10 yards out for a
l4-7 load with l :20 to play.

“You’rc pretty fl red up that you’re

.\lim~.x.i. .1! »ll

(.;lI)S(.)t'1, field hockey co-captain. Snyder took over for the
rctiring’l"mn_lrn1cs its head trainer injuly,

we’ ll be patient.” she said.

All in all, the Generals‘ training
room is in good hands with Holly
Snyder in charge. As much as we
tlon‘t want to see injuries on the ﬁelds
and in the pool, they do happen. and
with the experts in the training room
around. our athletes will be back on
the fields as soon as they can be. and
we can’t ask much more than that.

.

SUNDAY SEPTEMBER 22

(Rciindate September 29)
2:30 P.M. - 7:00 P.M.

 

LOCATION
600 Weddell St.
Lexington, VA 24450

(next to public pool off Main Street) 3 I,

PROUD SPONSOR OF...

BRINGING SKATING AND CORE MUSIC
TOGETHER FOR A GOOD CAUSE.

$5.00 DONATION
(NO ALCOHOL. HELMETS REQUIRED WHEN SKATING.)

  

I ll-Illlool»

I;-ir‘.uz”ln
DO1EBl.F-,-TEAMED. \Vasliingt<.')n and Lee junior safety Tell 3 liafﬁn johns lloplzins taill>acl< Adam (look on Saturday. ;’\-lafﬁtt had

two interceptions. while Cook rushed for "El l yards and a TD.

able to do something like that,"
Sullivan said of the go-ahead drive.
“You’re just hoping that the defense
will hold for you. You have faith and
conﬁdence in them that they’re go-
ing to do what they’vc been doing
all game.”

But Fernand and the Blue Jays ran

Pun: 7?

their two-minute offense successfully
against the Generals. and Fernand
capped off the ensuing drive with a
34-yard TD toss to sophomore Brian
Wolcott.

Fernand and Wolcott hooked up
again to open overtime, as the quar-
terback found his receiver for a 24-
yard play down to the W&L l-yard
line. Fernand sneaked the ball up the
middle to put the Blue Jays up 21-14,
and the Generals went four-and-out.

Miriello was pleased with his
team ‘s overall effort, and he echoed
Sull.ivan’s sentiment that Saturday’s
game against Gui.ll’ord is what the Gen-
erals are really shooting for.

“Wc‘ve got to lick our wounds, so
to speak. We'll look at the tape, look
at the mistakes we made and correct
them,” Miriello said. “(Guilford is) an
ODAC game, it’s the first one we’ve
got to get to get to the title, and that’s
our focus. We’re going after the title,
one ODAC game at a time."

It’s the little things that should make
the difference for W&L, Sullivan said.

“In terms of our running game. we
were one block a way a lot of times.
The linemen need to stay on blocks a
half-second longer. I need to make
reads a little quicker, a little faster." he
said. “Everything just needs to speed
up a half-second more, and we should
be unstoppable."

The Generals kick off against the
Quakers at I pm. at the ArmfieldAth-
letic Center.

Field hockey, men’s
soccer teams take to road

W&L tops Mary Baldwin,
drops pair at Salisbury

FROM STAFF REPORTS

The Washington. and Lee ﬁeld

hockey team opened up its second

_ season of fullvarsity play this past
week with three non-conference
games. W&L concluded the first day
of the Salisbury Tournament Satur-
day with a 1-2 record.

On Wednesday, the Generals got
off on the right foot, shutting out
Mary Baldwin 2-0 in Staunton.

Junior forward Jessica Lake

scored the game-winner at l 6:45 off

an assist from English exchange stu-
dent Joanna Slack, and junior for-
ward Kelly Taffe cushioned the lead

with an unassisted tally at 2:05 of

the second half.

Freshmen goalies Courtney
Harrison and Elise Gelinas each
played a half, totaling four saves for
W&L.

In the opening game of the
Salisbury Tournament, the Generals
quickly fell behind to Wesley Col-
lege when Kim Robostello scored the
first other two goals a mere 35 sec-
onds into the game.

Freshman midfielder Jane Beall
responded with an unassisted goal
to tie the game, but the Wolverines
bookcnded two goals around half-
time to earn a 3-1 victory.

In later action, the outcome was the
same for the Generals as they dropped
a 3-1 contest to Denison. despite
outshooting the Big Red 1 2-7.

Denison scored three first-half

goals to put the game out of reach,
with Kelsey Ill accounting for two
of the goals.

Beall prevented the shutout

when she scored off an assist from
sophomore Meredith Walker with
8:25 left in the match.

w&i. will play on: Dominion

Athletic Conference foe Hollins in
their home opener on Wednesday
at 6:30 pm.

Méni’s soccer plays N. C.
Wesleyan to 1-1 draw

The Washington and Lee men’s
soccer team, looking for its first vic-
tory of the season at the Methodist
Tournament, earned. a hard-fought
1-} tie against North Carolina
Wesleyan on Saturday afternoon.

After a scoreless first half, the Bat-
tling Bishops notched the first goal at
the 52:00 mark when Drew Martin put
a shot past freshman goalkeeper
Michael Stanton to take a 1-0 lead.

The Generals (0-2-1) responded
seven minutes later when sopho-
more defender Brian Pirkle scored an
unassisted goal off a deflection to
even the score at 1-1.

The scoreboard would not change
over the final 51 minutes, as neither
team found the back. of the net dur-
ing the final 3 1 minutes ofregulati.on
or during two overtime periods.

Senior Brad Heam played the
first half for the Generals. making
one save. Stanton played the sec-
ond halfand overtime in net, regis-
tering nine saves.

W&L outshot North Carolina
Wesleyan 22-18 on the day. but
George Frangos notched ll saves
in goal for the Battling Bishops to
preserve the tie.

The Generals open the ODAC
season at Hampden—Syd.ney on Sat-
urday at 1 pm.

CampusFundraiser at
www.campusfundraiser.com

fraternitiesjsororities
llluhsostutlentltrouns

Earn $1,000-$2,000 this semester with a proven
CampusFundraiser 3 hour fundraising event. Our programs
make fundraising easy with no risks. Fundraising dates are
filling quickly, so get with the program! It works. Contact
(888)

923-323 8, or visit

SELL SPRING BREAK TRIPS
ALLTl»ll?. FUN & Al..I..Tl~lE PROTECTIONS
AMERICAN EXPRESS WORLDWIDE
GU A.RANTEED BEST BUY
1 FREE TRIP.l7O.R EVERY l 0 PAID
OR CASH STARTING WITH. F IRST BOOKING
YOU SEL'L- WE COLLECT PAYMENTS
WORLD CLASS VACATIONS
l-800-222-4432

 

0 ‘ i*‘.l;l{';\‘(§--l‘,\s 

I)AGIL8_.

PORTS  --

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER,l6, 2002

e, women take 1st place i Generals Invitational

JEB BROOKS/Tl IE RL\r+ru\1 Plu
W&L WINS. Freshman Betsy Frayer placed third on Saturday.

Generals drill

Sweet Briar,
tie Newport

Women ’s soccer takes 9-0 ODAC win,
steps out of conference for 1-1 draw

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s soccer team saw a
pair of games this week, annihilating the Sweet Briar Vix-
ens on Monday in a 9-0 ODAC match, and tying the Chris-
topher Newport Lady Captains Saturday afternoon at the
Liberty Hall Fields in a non-conference game.

Monday’s game against Sweet Briar proved to be a
‘blowout, with the Generals’ first goal coming from sopho-
more defender Kelley Zagol in the third minute off of a
throw-in from senior midﬁelder Jenny Thomas.

That goal broke the ice, and sophomore forward Maggie

Hope, freshman midﬁelder Gina Von Stemberg, sopho-
more forward Molly Plummer and Thomas also scored in
the ﬁrst half, bringing the score to 5-0 at the break.
K Sophomore midﬁelder Martha Allgood notched two
assists, as did Thomas, and Hope, Plummer, Von Stemberg
and sophomore midﬁelder Romney Wilson added one as
well.

Hope and Von Stemberg each scored again in the
second half, along with junior forward Susannah Hewlett
and sophomore midﬁelder Alison Irvin, to ﬁnish oﬂ‘ the
Vixens.

Sophomore goalkeepers Emily Barker an/dAbigai1 Pfetfer
shared time in the goal. Sweet Briar’s senior goalkeeper
Margaret Van Hook garnered 10 saves in an otherwise de-
pressing game. The Generals outshot Sweet Briar 24-0.

W&L men take top 4 slots, freshmen pace
women’s team in annual home meet

BY DAVID CROWELL
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

Junior Andy Schorr spearheaded an impressive show-
ing by the Washington and Lee men’s cross country team
at the W&L Invitational on Saturday, winning the 8,000-
meter race in a time of 28:49.25.

The Generals took the top four spots en route to win-
ning the men’s competition with 16 points, easily outdis-
tancing Southern Virginia College, which took second
place with 52 points.

For Schorr, it was his ﬁrst competition of the year after
sitting out the Elon Invitational on Sept. 7 with a small
injury.

“I was disappointed that there weren’t more teams com-
peting at our course, but I was excited to be back in com-
petition,” he said.

Following Schorr, sophomore Steven Chambers ﬁn-
ished the course in 29:28.87 to take second place, fresh-
man Andrew Johnson took third place (29:48.12) and se-
nior captain Will Teichman ﬁnished in 30:27.86, good
enough for fourth place.

Sophomore Marty LaF1amrne rounded out the scoring
for W&L, ﬁnishing in sixth place with a time of 30:34.40.

Not to be outdone, the women’s team took ﬁrst place
out of six teams, placing all ﬁve scoring runners in the top
10. The Generals ﬁnished with 26 points, beating out sec-
ond-place finisher and Old Dominion Athletic Conference
foe Lynchburg (61 points).

Freshmen Molly Drake and Betsy Frayer and sopho-
more Liz Crawford paced W&L, ﬁnishing in second
through fourth place respectively.

Drake, also the team’s top ﬁnisher at the Elon Invita-
tional, ﬁnished the race in 25:58, not far behind Catholic ’s
Rachel Yates, who won the race in 25:30.

JEl3BROOKS/THERI.\'G-'lLl11Pl-ll
POSTING UP. Washington and Lee sophomoreMol1y Plummet
attempts to keep Christopher Newport defender Terri
Kaminsky off the ball in the two teams’ 1-1 tie on Saturday at
the Liberty Hall Fields.

Saturday afternoon saw the Generals in action against
Christopher Newport. The ﬁrst half was scoreless until
40:23, when Thomas found the net off an assist from fresh-
man midﬁelder Kerry Giblin.

The Lady Captains answered in the second half, when
freshman midﬁelder Ashleigh Dota scored on Barker after
a break down the field. Barker redeemed herself with a
game—saving grab at 82:26 off a Newport penalty kick,
preserving the tie.

Barker ﬁnished the game with six saves, while Newport
freshman goalkeeper Erin Pollack garnered three saves.
Newport outshot the Generals 17-8 for the game.

The Generals return to action on Wednesday when
they travel to Lynchburg for a 4 p.m. ODAC game.

SCOREBOARD

SATURDAY’S FOOTBALLYARDLINE

W&L SPORTS SCHEDULEI SEPT. 16-29

JEB BRooi<s/THnR1.\mUMPH1

AND THEY’RE OFF. Washington and Lee runners, from left, Jeremy Mims (hidden), Andy Schorr, Will Teichman, Marty
LaFlamme, Rusty Meyer, AndrewJohnson, Andrew Fotinos and Steven Chambers begin Saturday’s Generals Invitational.

“I felt really good about my run, but I was happier that
the entire team ran well,” Drake said.

Frayer ﬁnished the 6,000—meter course in 26:22, nine
seconds ahead of Crawford. Freshmen Meg Garner
(27:23.80) and Sarah Williamson (27:5 1 .3 8) rounded out
W&L’s scoring, finishing in eighth and ninth place re-
spectively.

“I think this race was key because of the fact that We’re
a young team. We’re building some conﬁdence that we’ll

need later on,” Drake said.

Both cross country squads return to competition on
Sept. 27 when the Generals compete at the Great American
Cross Country Festival in Charlotte, N.C. The men’s race
begins at 5:30 p.m., with the women running at 6:30 p.m.

“Our performance (on Saturday) gives our team some
much-needed conﬁdence,” Schorr said about his squad.
“I’m really excited about the opportunities that we have to
succeed in the future.”

Johns Hopkins 21, Washington and Lee 14
Johns Hopkins 0 0 0 14 7-21
Washington and Lee 0 0 7 7 0-14
Third Quarter
W&L -— Callaham 8 pass from Dean (Whitfield kick), 9:43
Fourth Quarter
JHU — Cook 9 run (Smo|yn kick), 5:38
W&L — Sullivan 10 run (Whitfield kick), 1:20
JHU — Wolcott 34 pass from Fernand (Smo|yn kick), 0:15 '
Overtime
JHU — Femand 1 run (Smolyn kick)

JHU

W&L
First downs 20 14
Rushes-yards 34-145 38-132
Passing yards 239 146
Return yards 73 61
Comp-Att-lnt 19-34-3 12-29-1
Sacked-Yards lost 2-7 1-10
Punts 5-33 8-34.4
Fumbles-lost 2-1 ' 0-0
Penalties-yards 2-25 4-42
Time of Possession 28:06 31:54

INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS
RUSH|NG—Johns Hopkins: Cook 8-70, Johnson 14-65, Stache
2-8, Readal 3-7, Merrell 3-3, Femand 4-(-8). Washington and Lee:
Sullivan 33-152, Krupczak 1-1, Dean 3-(-20), Team 1-(-1).
PASSlNG-Johns Hopkins: Femand 19-34-3-239. Washington
and Lee: Dean 12-28-1-146, Barnwell 0-1-0-0.
RECEIViNG—Johns Hopkins: Lehman 6-73, Cook 5-33, Wolcott
4-75, Eno 3-41, Moriarty 1-17. Washington and Lee: Callaham 4-
52, Brimer 4-43, Sullivan 3-28, Neuman 1-23.
INTERCEPTlONS—Johns Hopkins: Longo 1-10. Washington
and Lee: Matlitt 2-8, Stavish 1-4.

Wednesday, Sept. 18
Women’s Soccer

W&L at Lynchburg, 4 p.m.
Field Hockey

Hollins at W&L, 6:30 p.m.
Volleyball

Hollins at W&L, 6:30 p.m.

September 21-22

Golf

W&L at James Madison Invitational
Men’s Tennis

W&L Fall Classic

Saturday, Sept. 21

Field Hockey

W&L at Lynchburg, 1 p.m.
Football

W&L at Guilford, 1 p.m.

Men’s Soccer

W&L at Hampden-Sydney, 1 p.m.
Women’s Soccer

Hollins at W&L, 1 p.m.
Volleyball

W&L at Eastern Mennonite, 1 p.m.

Sunday, Sept. 22
Women’s Soccer
Greensboro at W&L, 1 p.m.
Volleyball
W&L at Randolph-Macon, 1 pm.
W&L vs. Virginia Wesleyan

(at Randolph-Macon), 3 p.m.

September 23-24

Goli

Buck Leslie Invitational, Lexington
Golf & Country Club

Tuesday, Sept. 24

Women’s Soccer

W&L at Randolph-Macon Women’s
College, 4 p.m.

Wednesday, Sept. 25
Men’s Soccer

W&L at Guilford, 4 p.m.
Field Hockey

W&L at Roanoke, 4:30 p.m.

Friday, Sept. 27

Volleyball (at Emory Classic)

W&L vs. Texas Lutheran, 2 pm.

W&L vs. East Texas Baptist,
4:30 p.m.

Cross Country

W&L at Great American Cross
Country Festival

Field Hockey

W&L at Eastern Mennonite, 7 p.m.

Saturday, Sept. 28

Cross Country

W&L at Roanoke Invitational
Women’s Soccer

W&L at N.C. Wesleyan, 12 p.m.
Football "
W&L at Centre, 1:30 p.m.
Volleyball (at Emory Classic)
W&L vs. Southwestern, 2 pm
W&L at Emory, 4:30 p.m.
Men’s Soccer

W&L at Roanoke, 2:30 p.m.

Sunday, Sept. 29
Field Hockey
Virginia Wesleyan at W&L, 1 p.m.

Volleyball traight

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee volley-
ball team opened the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference season with a
three—game win over Guilford on
Wednesday before winning a pair of
matches at the Centre Tournament on
Saturday.

The Generals began ODAC play
with a 30-19, 30-19, 30-27 win over
Guilford at the Warner Center. W&L
swept the Quakers despite what head
coach Bryan Snyder deemed a lack-
luster effort.

“We didn’t play well at all tonight,
in any phase of the game,” Snyder
said after the match. “But we made
some big plays when we needed to
make big plays. That’s what I told the
girls after the game — it’s the sign of
a championship team to be able to win
when you don’t play your best.”

Sophomore Michelle Chastain re-
corded 16 kills against Guilford, add-
ing 10 digs and four aces. Classmate
Jennifer Lux tallied 35 assists and nine
digs, and freshman Susan Gaillard ﬁn-
ished with seven kills and three
blocks.

“It’s the beginning of the season,
and we have some things to work on,
but we deﬁnitely have some good
players in the front,” Lux said. “We
lost a lot of players last year, but we
deﬁnitely have some strong girls com-
ing in. I think that we can run some
plays that maybe in the past we
haven’t done.”

The Quakers made W&L ﬁght for
nearly every point on Wednesday.
Guilford led‘ 15-14 in the ﬁrst game
before the Generals gradually pulled
away by way of ﬁve straight service
points from freshman Taylor Gibson
and- four to close the match from se-
nior Stacey Kimmel.

W&L broke an 8-8 tie in the sec-
ond set and led the rest of the way.
The Generals led for most of the final
frame, but eight service errors by the

OoURIrsY<)r Sroius l.\iR)Ri\l-\TDN

DOZENS OF DIMES. W&L sophomore setterJennifer Lux tallied 35 assists in the
Generals’ 30-19, 30-19, 30-27 over Guilford at the Warner Center on Wednesday.

home team kept Guilford within strik-
ing distance.

Despite Snyder’s concerns about
his team’s play, the main thing against
Guilford was opening the ODAC sea-
son with a win.

“We’ve got a lot of improvement
to make, but we’ve got a lot of time to
make that improvement,” Snyder said.
“With the way our region is set up,
the ODAC automatic bid is really the
only option we have to make the
NCAA Tournament. We’d like to get
the No. 1 seed in the ODAC Tourna-
ment, and all these regular-season
matches are huge.

“As long as we continue to win,
teams are going to have to come
knock us off to get that No. 1 seed.”

W&L traveled to Danville, Ky.,
over the weekend for the Centre Tour-

nament. The Generals started outwith
a pair of wins on the first day of the
invitational, sweeping Averett and

coming from behind to beat Centre in .

ﬁve games.

Chastain set a new career high with
17 kills in W&L’s 30-24, 30-23, 30-25
win over Averett. Gibson added nine
kills and six blocks, while Lux amassed
36 assists.

W&L then pulled off a 14-30, 23-
30, 30-28, 30-20, 15-8 win over the
homestanding Colonels. Gaillard had
14 kills and six blocks for the Gener-

in

V

als, while Chastain contributed 10 kills »

and Gibson added nine kills and four
blocks. Lux had 38 assists against
Centre, and Kimmel recorded 14 digs.

The Generals resume ODAC play
with a 6:30 p.m. match against Hollins
at the Warner Center on Wednesday.

Interested in getting involved with
Washington and Lee athletics?

Write for the P/92°.

Opportunities are available to cover fall sports,
from football to soccer, ﬁeld hockey to volleyball.

Contact Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin at
fmmé/z'7y@w/zredu or X4060 for more information.

L‘

I

 

