 

  
  

2' 
3,
pr

 

...~.r4”

 --7-. -52:. .,.r-4
reef

' earns
‘Sl1‘1l{€ one

BY KATIE HOWELL
Y EDITOR 1N CHIEF

Kappa Delta received the first sorority strike last week
for alcohol violations on “Tear Night” activities Jan. 1 1.

Washington and Lee’s Panhellenic Council investigated al-

Vlegations of the violation after faculty, staif, deans and male stu-
dents approached members of the Council with concerns.

Panhellenic found Kappa Delta guilty of alcohol of-
fences after conducting a thorough investigation with

(the help of University Security Director Mike Young.

“The violations are in regards to alcohol being pro-
vided to the freshmen on Tear Night and the morning of
Tear Night,” said Kappa Delta President Amanda Basham.

According to the Student Judiciary Council Web site

‘Ia strike can be awarded to a Greek organization in situa-
tions of coercive or pressured drinking related to group
activities, violations of Interfratemity Council/Panhellenic
rules governing events where alcohol is served, violations
of dry rush policies, excess damage to house property or
coordinating the use of, or using, fratemity/sorority funds,
group funds or slush funds, to purchase alcohol.

“(Kappa Delta) will have two weeks social probation
aﬁer February break, letters sent home to all the parents

tof members under 21 and to their housing corporation,
community service and an alcohol workshop,” said
Reanna Stahl, Panhellenic vice president.

Under the Student Judiciary Committee’s guidelines

‘for the three-strike substance-abuse policy, organizations
are usually ﬁned as a ﬁrst strike violation. Kappa Delta
will not receive the ﬁne, however.

“We decided not to ﬁne them because ﬁnes are not
considered constructive punishment by the National

[Panhellenic Council,” Stahl said.

Basham said the Kappa Delta National organization
is conducting a separate investigation into the charges of
alcohol violation.

Kappa Delta is the ﬁrst sorority to receive a Univer-

7sity sanction under the three-strike system initiated at the
beginning of the 2001-2002 school year. Five fraternities,
however, have gained strikes.

The Panhellenic Council encourages students to care

pfor their peers if they are intoxicated.

“...taking an intoxicated student to the Student Health
Center or Emergency Room will NEVER constitute a strike.
They are both safe havens from judicial sanctions,” the
Panhellenic statement of the strike said.

'4 Basham said all members of the sorority~both actives
and new members—are handling the sanctions responsibly.

“(The new members) have all been really support-
ive,” Basham said. “We’ve explained that we don’t blame

‘them in any way and we’re all trying to work through this
together to make sure it doesn’t happen again.”

fie’ t :1 .
 sttrderrr i."tri£L‘t1itf)r>_;' .

.
.
  1

  

g.1’

D-my APPOA(]ilNG. Lexington, VMI and Washington and Lee held a
town meeting in Lee Chapel Sunday to discuss moral issues involved
with going to war. James F. Childress spoke for the first hour aboutjust
War Theory and the ethical issues involved in going to war with Iraq.

. rrrzri irrrr .

 

 

..  aria:

J BRoOI<s/ 7beRmg4umPbi

The second hour of the event was an opportunity for members of the
pandtoentertamquesdonsﬁrxnddzerisaridstuderitsofﬂieccxmnuﬁty.
The panel induded politics professor Robert Strong, law professorMark
Drurnbl and Brigadier General Charles BI‘OW€f of VMI.

‘F!

- 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2003

Orgs. want
women in
leadership

BY KYLE Wrrss
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

Last Wednesday, men and
women from the Washington and Lee
community met at the Women’s Fo-
rum meeting, primarily to discuss why
W&L does not have more women in
administrative positions.

About 20 people attended this
meeting , which was held in the Fairfax
Lounge. Roughly half of the partici-
pants were students. The faculty
present included Dean of Students
David Howison, Dean of Freshmen
Dawn Watkins, and Associate Dean
of Students Anne Schroer-Lamont,
among others. The meeting started off
with a discussion of the issue that the
University has only one woman in the
highest level of administration, and the
concern about the message this is send-
ing out about Washington and Lee.
There was also concern that some of
the posters put up by KEWL around
campus—commenting on the need for
more women in upper-level adminis-
trative positions~have been taken
down or defaced, to which one of the
males responded with the worry that
KEWL is “not asking for the best ad-
ministrator possible, but asking for the
best [administrator who] is a woman,”
and that they are merely looking for
“the most qualiﬁed person who appeals
to certain sectors of the community.”

Watkins, who prefaced by say-
ing that Washington and Lee is an
“extremely friendlytplace for women
to work,” agreed that we need more
women in administrative positions,
but said that there is a “larger social
context we need to be aware of.” She
noted that “people stay in positions
here for a long time,” and that while
there has been an effort to recruit
strong women candidates, that many
women do not work full—time as they
develop families, and Lexington is far

SEE WOMEN, PAGE 2

.,Court ruling may force universities to turn in ﬁle sharers

BY MEGAN MORGAN
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

A recent legal victory for the re-
cording industry gives them ex-
panded powers in their battle against
the illegal downloading of songs and
other copyrighted material off the

Vlnternet. In the United States District
Court of Columbia, Judge John D.
Bates ruled that the Verizon Commu-
nications must under the Digital Com-

unications Act provide to the Re-
cording Industry Association of

America the name of a customer who
had used KaZaa to download 600
songs. Currently, a copyright owner
must get a subpoena signed by a
judge in order to force a service pro-
vider to disclose information about
one of its subscribers. However, this
new ruling means that a copyright
owner will be able to obtain this infor-
mation without having to appear in
front of a judge.

Universities all over the country
have been watching this case care-
fully. Washington and Lee, like most

universities, does not actively search
for students who illegally download
songs and movies. Indeed, if a stu-
dent simply downloads a copyrighted
song or movie onto his computer, he
will probably go unnoticed. However,
whenever a student has KaZaa open
on his computer, the program auto-
matically advertises all materials
downloaded on it to the KaZaa com-
munity- The Recording Industry As-
sociation of America and the Motion
Picture Association of America can
detect these advertisements, and if the

Alum mourns son, astronaut

BY CALEY ANDERSON
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

The Hon. Paul D. Brown, a retired Virginia judge and
Washington and Lee alumnus who spent 35 years on the
bench, and his wife, Dorothy, were affected by the recent
Columbia tragedy on a much deeper level than most.

Their son, Captain David Brown, was serving as Mis-

Vision Specialist #1 for STS-107, designated Space Shuttle
Columbia at the time of its destruction.

The death of Cpt. Brown was made all the more sad-
dening by the fact that it was his first space ﬂight. Though
he had initially been selected for participation in the
‘Manned Space Flight program in 1996, he had waited for
seven years to reach his goal. He, along with his six
crewmates, perished when Columbia exploded while re-
entering the Earth’s atmosphere. NASA ofﬁcials are list-

ing “heat shield failure” as the current most-likely cause
of the accident, but will not make any pronouncements of
certainty.

The late Cpt. Brown’s father, the Honorable Paul D.
Brown, graduated from Washington and Lee as an under-
graduate in 1941. He subsequently received his law de-
gree from the W&L Law School in 1943. He worked with
several law practices, received his first bench appoint-
ment, and experienced the birth of his son David through
the 1950s. In 1966, he was appointed to the Circuit Court
of Arlington County, over which he presided at the time of
his retirement in 1985.

The late Cpt. David Brown received a biology degree
as an undergraduate at William and Mary in 1978, and
received a medical doctorate from Eastern Virginia Medi-
cal School in 1982. He was 46 at the time of the Columbia
accident.

‘Watkins provides female leadership to W&L

BY IMRAN NAEEMULIAH
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

Dawn Watkins may only be in her
second year at Washington and Lee,
,,but she has already made herself a
familiar sight on campus as the Dean
of Freshmen. Watkins came to W&L

 

7

from Guilford College, where she spent
seven years as Associate Dean of Stu-
dents, among other positions. She
and her husband, John, who works in
University Computing, were wanting
to move, and Watkins was applying
for jobs at several universities, includ-
ing Wake Forest and Duke. She also

was keeping an eye open for W&L,
because she had heard of its presti-
gious reputation when she attended
high school in the area and Virginia
Tech for both her bachelor’s and
master’s degrees.

SEE WATKINS, PAGE 2

advertiser is a W&L student, they
send a letter to John Stuckey, the Di-
rector of University Computing ex-
plaining their complaint along with the
student’s numerical Internet address.
The University is then usually able to
determine the name of the student re-
ferred to and sends a letter to that stu-
dent asking them to remove all ille-
gally downloaded material from their
computer. A letter is then sent back to
either the Recording Industry Asso-
ciation of America or the Motion Pic-
ture Association of America stating

that the problem has been taken care
of without disclosing the name of the
student responsible.

If this new ruling holds up on
appeal, the Recording Industry As-
sociation of America and the Motion
Picture Association of America may
have the power to force universities
to provide them with the names of stu-
dents who are illegally downloading
copyrighted material and hold them
personally responsible. Both John
Stuckey and John White, the manager
of the University Computing Help

Desk, doubt that the RIAA and the
MPAA will subpoena universities, at
least for a few years. However, in or-
der to look at this as well as other
Internet related problems such as elec-
tronic plagiarism, Washington and
Lee University has formed a commit-
tee consisting of John Stuckey, one
Executive Committee member, a copy-
right specialist from the law school
and one faculty member. They will be
reporting their suggestions on how
to deal with these types of problem to
the Provost within the next two weeks.

 

   

JER BROOl{S/ 7beRing4umPbi

SIAUGHTERHOUSE. Kurt Vonnegut relaxed at the Southern Inn between dinner and his speech in Lee Chapel last

Tuesday night. Over 6()0 people attended his speech, many of whom had to stand in the back rows of the balcony. I

 



 

PAGE 2

    

EC will continue to
debate investigative
committee

BY CALEY ANDERSON
.Ass1sr.m' xr.urs EDITOR

EC Meeting Report- February 3'“, 2003

The EC met in Classroom B of the Law School.

The EC discussed the ongoing process of
Greek Honor Orientation. The purpose is to
prevent Greek organizations, their leaders, mem-
bers, and pledges, from committing or forcing
someone else to commit any sort of honor vio-
lation, especially during the pledgeship pro-
cess.

The EC noted that the Board of Trustees
would be meeting in the EC Ofﬁces during the
week.

The EC noted that the “Town Meeting” to
discuss the possibility of a United States war
with Iraq would be held this Sunday in Lee
Chapel. President Titus is scheduled to open
the meeting.

The EC discussed the current policy regard-
ing the University Board of Appeals. Some mem-
bers expressed concern that recent overhauls to
policy include the fact that a designated univer-
sity ofﬁcial can now appeal any verdict made by
the Student—Faculty Hearing Board. The EC ex-
pressed concern for this policy extending to the
Student Judicial Council, and will examine the is-
sue further.

The EC heard reports from representatives of
Traveller regarding the inappropriate treatment
of a law student who requested transportation. A
Traveller dispatcher allegedly used profanity and
refused a ride to a law student. The Traveller
representatives stated that changes were being
made to prevent a similar occurrence, and that
disciplinary action against the dispatcher in ques-
tion was pending and would most likely consist
of dismissal if the dispatcher was found to be
responsible.

The EC discussed at great length proposals for
the creation of an investigative committee to study
the current process of W&L student government
and to recommend changes to the EC, and the pos-
sible creation of a committee that would hear stu-
dent opinions on topical issues, e.g., cigarettes in
the co-op, D—Hall issues, and similar concerns. The
EC decided not to take any immediate action on the
latter issues. However, a motion was made and sec-
onded to entirely reject the idea of an investigative

committee. The motion was defeated by a vote of 7-,,

5, and the EC will hear further debate on, the investi-
gative committee issue at the next meeting.

t Lexington

 

Forecast
Monday- Moderate Snow, 41/19

Tuesday- Mostly Sunny, 37/22
Wednesday— Partly Cloudy, 3 8/21
Thursday— Partly Cloudy & Wind, 39/27
Friday- Mostly Cloudy, 50/36

Saturday— Moderate Rain & Snow, 45/24

Sunday- Mostly Cloudy, 42/23

WATKINS, FROM PAGE 1

When she saw the opening for
Dean of Freshmen on the W&L Web

site, she said she jumped at therop-

portunity to apply.

When she was offered the job, it
was a hard decision for her and John
to make, because he had not yet
found a job in Lexington and was
faced with the prospect of a potential
commute into Roanoke everyday. F or-
tunately, says Watkins, John was of-
fered a job with University Comput-
ing which was a perfect match for him,
and which he continues to enjoy to
this day. So she, John, and Jill, their
young daughter, packed up their
things and moved to Virginia. Watkins
said that one of the things which at-
tracted her most about the area was
her family ties to it; she says she feels
at home here living among the Blue
Ridge Mountains and is happy to be
back in Virginia.

Her daily routine includes many
things, but Watkins’ ﬁrst and foremost
responsibility is towards the freshman
class. One of the things she likes the
most about her job, she says, is her
ability to set her own agenda. Although

there are some things she must obvi- .

ously do, like make sure all freshmen
are performing at their potential, she
enjoys the ﬂexibility of being able to
decide what she does. One of the key
differences between Watkins and her
predecessors, the immediate ofwhom
was Mark Dalhouse, is that her job is
exclusively administrative, whereas the
previous deans of freshmen also had
to teach classes. She says this leaves
her with more time to concentrate ex-
clusively on making sure the freshman
experience is as positive and reward-
ing as possible.

One of the biggest transitions
from home life to living at college is
the sudden absence of parents. For
many students, this is not such a prob-
lem, but a lot of parents suddenly feel
like they are losing control over their
child’s life, so they call Watkins to see
how their child is doing. Watkins says
she enjoys getting the phone calls
from concerned parents, as well as
meeting them during Orientation and
Parents’ Weekend, among other times

that parents come to visit. Watkins-~

also works closely with. professors to
make sure that students are perform-
ing well academically, especially given

ji-:nBR<x>i<s/ 7beRz'ng4umPbc'

FRosH. Watkins talks with head dorm counselor Raphael Penteado.

the pressures of the ﬁrst semester of
freshman year.

Indeed, that is one of the chal-
lenges of her job, making sure that all
students perform to the best of their
abilities. However, she notes that she
ﬁnds all of the challenges she faces
positive ones and learns from them
on a daily basis. She says that it is
especially hard when a student is
faced with some tough decisions to
make, and she needs to help guide
them through the process, especially
when it involves something as dras-
tic as taking a year off, for example.
Other especially challenging aspects
of her job are helping students to cope
with tragedy, for example, the death
of a family member or a close friend.
She says, “I really feel for those folks.
I’ve been in tears myself at times.”

Watkins notes, however, that
“there’s so much variety in the job
that there are always different issues
to work on,” so she always has new
challenges to face. One of the ways
she does this is in working with the
Freshman Leadership Council and
other student government bodies. For
example, one project Watkins is cur-
rently working on involves the Execu-
tive Committee, and it is to create a
freshman seminar. She says, -“So many
other colleges, have aclass during ﬁr_s_t
semester that all freshmen can experi-
ence, and that is something that we
lack.” As far as what the seminar

would concentrate on, Watkins re-
plies, “At a school like Washington
and Lee, what better topic to focus
on than honor?” Indeed, current EC
President Gerald Titus agrees, and has
been working with Watkins to develop
such a class, which would be offered
in a variety of departments, such as
history, philosophy and politics and
would approach the subject from a
number of perspectives. This is a
great way to help foster the sense of
trust and community that is the hall-
mark of the W&L experience.

When she is not working,
Watkins enjoys spending time with
her family. Indeed, she eats lunch at
home whenever she can, since she
lives so close to campus, at 19 Uni-
versity Place. She loves the house and
its great location, looking up towards
the Colonnade, and notes that it is
very pretty inside, as well. An avid
reader, Watkins is an admirer of South-
ern literature, and enjoys reading sev-
eral books concurrently. She is also
into personal ﬁtness, enjoys reading
books about athletics, as well as tak-
ing hikes in the area with her family,
and going for a jog as often as she
can.

This is the third article in a
series which feature in-depth
interviewswith administrators
at Washington and Lee Univer-

sily.

SUMMARY or EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE HONOR
ACTIVITY FOR THE 2002-2003 ACADEMIC YEAR
Investigations: 5

Withdrawals in face of a Closed Hearing: 1
Guilty Verdicts in Closed Hearings: 3

Not Guilty Verdicts in Closed Hearings: 3
Student Body Hearings: 0

 

Doris Fredricksen ’

463-I 67 I or dfred@cfw.com

Mary Kay has the 
forValentine's Day. Let
me help you ﬁnd that
perfect something. So
you can spend more
time with that someone
special. For your one—and-
only gift shopping source,
ca_llmLt9QL __

Independent Saies Director

Canes‘ Opportunitia Av?‘able

WOMEN, FROM PAGE 1

away from any cities where the other spouse in a dual-
career couple could get a job.

Rebecca Skaggs, one of the co-leaders of the
Women’s Forum, moved the discussion toward how
W&L’s policies would be different ifthere were more
women leaders. A female student in attendance said
that policies toward sexual assault would be differ-
ent and asked “shouldn’t [sexual assault and rape]
be a violation of the Honor Code?” The concern

over this issue “speaks to the need of women stu-
dents to get into leaderships positions,” Watkins
said.

Professor Lesley Wheeler, the faculty advisor
for the Women’s Forum, said that it is simply “an

 

WANTED: Summer Scholars Counselors
June 25 - July 26, 2003

Are you looking for a great chance to be a mentor and to
experience working with high school students while staying
at W&L for the month of July? The Washington and Lee
Summer Scholars Program is an exciting four week aca-
demic program for approximately 150 rising high school
seniors. We are looking for responsible students to help
guide participants and to plan extracurricular activities such
as talent shows, lip synchs, weekend hikes, trips to Goshen

and more.

For information about the position please contact Dr. Mimi
Milner Elrod at 458-8727. You may pick up an application
from Jennifer Lotts (458-8722) in the Summer Scholars

Office located in the Hill House.

---— The deadline for turning in applications is February 28,

2003.

issue oftrust,” and that women are “distrustful that
women’s faces aren’t there (in leadership posi-
tions).”

Skaggs also brought up for discussion the is-
sue that women “back off” from voicing opinions,
and do not take enough stands on topics that are
important to them. Thus, according to Skaggs, W&L
hasn’t “fully become co—ed.” The group then also
examined the differences teaching men versus teach-
ing women, with input from both male and female
professors.

The group was assured that W&L is actively look-
ing for women to ﬁll leadership and administrative posi-
tions, but that the applicant pool is small and the most
qualiﬁed candidates will receive positions, regardless of
gender.

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10. 2003

 

Injured Student’s Medications Stolen

Washington and Lee’s Security Department is inves-
tigating an unusual and inhumane case of theft that was
committed last Tuesday evening.

A male senior Washington and Lee student who suf- .

fered critical and “life-altering” injuries during the summer
of 2002 discovered last week that the supply of medica-
tions on which he relies to continue his recovery had
been stolen.

In a time when the student continues to suffer ‘

through the process of physical recovery from his inju-
ries, the theft of his important medicines, including a
store of prescription narcotic painkillers, only makes it
worse.

Possessing the particular painkiller involved without
a prescription is illegal in any case, but stealing it from one
who needs it is “despicable,” according to Mike Young,
Director of W&L Security.

The thief is considered likely to be someone fa-
miliar with the victimized student and his altered situ-
ation.

The Security department has stated that they wish
to resolve this case in a “fair and quick” manner. If the
guilty party is found to be a member of the Washington
and Lee community, then Honor System consequences
are implied.

Anyone with relevant information is asked to contact
the Security department at 458-8427, or to e-mail Young at
mlyoung@wlu.edu.

Concert Guild Present King’s Singers

Washington and Lee University Concert Guild will
present an evening with the King’s Singers on Tues-
day, Feb. 25 at 8 p.m. in the Lenfest Center’s Keller
Theater.

This male, British vocal sextet is known for its unique
and entertaining style of performance. They appeared at
the February 2002 Olympic Arts Festival at the Winter
Olympic Games in Salt Lake City.

“The King’s Singers present a very eclectic program,”
said Tim Gaylard, W&L music professor. “From Bach to
the Beatles, their music will appeal to people of all musical
tastes. They will provide a great ending to the series.”

Since the group’s inception at King’s College, Cam-
bridge, in 1968, the King’s Singers have developed a di-
verse repertoire, including a library of international music
from the 1500s to the 1900s, as well as works commis-
sioned from contemporary composers.

For ticket information, call the Lenfest Center box of-
fice at 540-458-8000.

W&L Ranked 18 of 24 in Diversity

Based on data researchers compiled over the past
10 years, The Journal of Blacks in Higher Education
produced a comprehensive ranking ofthe nation’s 24
top academically rated liberal arts colleges as to their
comparative success in integrating African Americans
into their faculties and student bodies.

Amherst College in western Massachusetts ﬁnished
at the top of our ranking followed by Williams, Colgate,
Wellesley, and Haverford. The lowest-rated selective lib-
eral arts institution was Grinnell College in Iowa. Wash-
ington and Lee was 18th.

Using government sources and original research, JBHE
ranked the 24 liberal arts colleges in 13 different categories
including such measures as black enrollments, black stu-
dent yield, and the black percentage of the total faculty.

Unlike other rankings such as those used by U.S.
News & World Report which contain subjective assess-
ments of an institution’s quality, JBHE’s rankings are based
solely on quantitative data. —

New!

Two new computing services in the Library:

Questions about Software?  
Questions about the Labs?
Questions about Wireless?

Stop by the new Help Desk station in Leyhurn Library

The desk is located in the reference circle and is open
from 8:00 to 11:00 p.m. Sunday through Thursday

Ncodaquict place to do some computing?

Stop by the new computing lab in Leyhum Library
The lab is located on the third level of Lcyhurn 301 and is open

lrom 8:00 am. to Midnight am. every day.
I llhislabmaybcunovailableifschodillodlotnainingl

0Pll\lONSliDll‘0R
1: Eiiiiiii l\'lR\VI

  

 

ZEDU

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2003

 
  

 

 
 

Letters to the Editor

 P ieliicifél

  

‘  P OWCII lll2lkCS CEISC fOI' W211’ CEIFTIPUS QTOWS mere
AFF EDITORIAL I - - -
Last Wednesday, Secretary of A A I M A ' S h  I I Ne S S   l
. Traveller needs serious reworking S‘a“?~C°‘i“¥’°We1‘aPP‘**%“*d"€f9‘” 1
It special session of the Umted Nations
W a stir n gt on and Lee, S Sober ride System, Security Council to share with the dis- I liketto think of myself as a moderate. I vote for the
Traveiieri is in dire need of a t-iX_un_ The Seherne’ behevmg diplomats some of the dainn— best candidate, not a straight -party. ticket. Both Repub-
in its Current form’ has many Sherteemingsi but ing information the United States has licans and Democrats can be intelligent, insightful, and
. . collected. His tone was measured and practice good politics. I don t think that “liberal” is a

V with a few more dollars and a little elbow . . . . . . ,, . ,, .

, his presentation simple and effective. dirty word, nor do I think conservative IS. The only
grease’ the Pmeram Could be made ﬁght‘ Due He iirefutably demonstrated that Iraq ' politically dirty word to me is “extremist.”
to umehable dlspatehers and peerly e°mpen' continues to lie to the UN and hide its Sadly, I am a part of the minority here at W&L. One
sated d1”iVer5» many miles Of eeumry reads Still banned weapons from inspectors. As needs only to read ___________ ﬂee 7777777 __

.r separate us. from success. i r i Sen. Joe-Biden. (DI-Dela.) pointed out, the iiationel opin- MoDEim~E1s MUsiNGs

The Phi had the privilege of providing driv- with an impartial jury, he “could get a ion pieces in Elthel“ i
ers for the program because we receive fund- C011ViC1i011-” the Phi 01 the T71‘  
ihg from the EC, but we were hot made aware To review, Secretary Powell used dent to see that
of the date of our Sentence untii the iast noS_ photographs, video and audio tape pipe-siiiiitefcliiparrtiisanship has taken over any remnant of
Y sibi e minute Three p i Obi e ms ar e Outstanding to illustrate that Iraq continues to oug i an civil debate. On the left side, you have
. . evade and obfuscate, has no inten- ad hommem attacks on the President used as a _]uSt1f1-
and’iE,e1O“,]’ w:Ou,t1me_ S01uUOnS' 1 bi tion of revealing barmed weapons to cation for criticism of the entire Republican party. There
“St 15 t emevltabie peep _e pro cm‘ the inspectors and is pursuing dan— are vague references to “warmongering” and “oil
V People ere umehable Whlle there 15 no way to gerous biological, chemical and greed” without any real proof. Insinuating corruption
' eV01dth15 Ommpresem dilemma» it can be mid‘ nuclear weapons with which to harm in the White House through mere speculation has be-
gated. The University could, for example, cre— its neighbors, the United States and come popular these days. Iamdisappointed with Demo-
ate a position or appoint an existing adrninistra- the world. Revealing this highly sen- crats who are willing to be so completely disrespectful
tor to ensure the smooth operation Of the gys— sitive intelligence was certainly very and critical without serious thought.

4 terrr Currently’ there is no oeritrai authority rig_ damaging to our future efforts to in— r Not to say that conservatives on this campus are
tire to monitor Traveiien student leadership goes Zestigate .President(—ifor-life Hussein  as agiiiiiilty, if nhot itlggfii so. ihad to b6”i1ii1i:1S€:,‘(i lat an

i f i i ecause it expose our espionage e on a emp asiz ow statesman — e, c ear,
on y S0 at . . methods and, potentially, human and “determined” President Bush looked giving the
Second’ the use of Student Vehlcles 1,5 wholly agents in Iraq. ' State of the Union. I respect George W. Bush for being

1' ““a°°eP_tab1e' To “Volunteer” Fhe Vehlcle of a For example, Powell played two the President of the United States, but we all know that
Student 13 Wrong Studertltr Vehleles areineta as audio tapes of telephone conversa— he’s not the brightest President we’ve ever had. The
Tf3Ve11ef C0mmﬂI1dS, add1tl0f131UmVef51tY C315; tions between members of the Iraqi very fact that we have to marvel over how “clear” he

i to be used as the school deems appropriate. military, which is supposed to be as— sounded is proof of that.

11 I Does W&L pay for the gas of “volunteer” driv- sisting the inspectors in their investi— There are more vicious attacks, too, such as the
erg? Does W&L pay for the mileage of “V01- gations. Instead, the first tape re- implication in one editorial that Democrats effectively
uriteer” drivers? No’ arid ho_ A fleet of auto_ corded an Iraqi colonel acknowledg- prostitute themselves into power ‘by bribing poor
rnohiiee designated Sneoifioaiiy for the use of ing that inspectors were about to ar- people with federal welfare. I’ll admit the welfare sys-

e Tr av eh e I, would S eiv e the p r Obi e mi rive and reassuring hlS'Sl.r1p6l’1‘OI‘ that tem needs some reform, but is this the attitude that

1 Ti . . he had evacuated a prohibited modi— Republicans on this campus take, that all liberals and
h U . dlyi Traveller musiigagithe respect of fied vehicle.” A second tape is of a Democrats are so blatantly and obviously wrong that

t e mverslty Commemty S _ Vers’ we were Republican Guard officer ordering a they should he laughed at and scorned as inferior think-
.n0tVa1}1ed but Were’ msteadt Vlewedras merely subordinate in the ﬁeld to “clean out” SW-'19 J“ ers? It’s this sort of attitude that contributes to the

it Cab dT1Ver5 at the beck and Cali Of mebrlated the areas with “forbidden ammo” and Jusr THE Fitorsi M A» AM_ Last Wednesday’ secretary of State Coiih poweiii before a laughably low levels of voter participation in the mod-
students. Many of us at the Phi consume our to “destroy this message” when the special session of the UN security Council’ made the ease for War on Iraq_ em era. I’m ﬁne with disagreeing with someone’s policy,

fair share of the sweet nectar, but it is important work has been completed. but when you get to implying things like the “fact” that

to Show gratitude for those providing this i_1’npQ1‘_ More damning evidence came in rich uranium. Contrary to what he back up its words with might when it one party or the other only exists to “spend the people’s

e turit service. Users of the system must avoid the form of pictures showing cargo claims, and despite the best efforts of has been baldly lied to for twelve money,” thaes meme the border or eetuaiiy hating

1 beeorning abusers of the System: Do not bring surrounding cherrncal weapons IAEA inspectors, Iraq’s nuclear re- years. i . people personally because of their political party:
Open (Or eie S e d) Contain e is of aieehei inte aTrev_ facihties days or even hours before in— search continues at full speed. Powell s speech may not have There are plenty of valid points against President

. spectors were to arrive. When the UN Finally, to silence critics who been about changing imnds. Those Bush s new tax cut, and there are plenty for it. Rather
eller vehicle. Do not attempt to cram ten people . . . . . . . , . . .
_ did show up, these facilities were magi— claim that any attack on Iraq would opposed to the war, due to naivete, than condemn the other side as being totally mistaken

, Into a Volkswagen Beetle‘ Be Sure to Say thenk cally free of any banned weapons. be a dangerous distraction from the fear or economic interest, will refuse and idiotic, 1et’s discuss the pros and cons. Obviously,
You The drwers and dlepatehers are Workmg Based on the testimony of Iraqi war on terror and al-Qaeda, Powell to be persuaded. His speech laid out for instance, FICA policy is ﬂawed. But is Bush’s cur-
her d t0 make Sure that your geed “me begms defectors, Powell also displayed illus- detailed the links between Saddam all the reasons why the United States rent proposal correct? Democrats do have a valid point
aI1dyC11dS as a good time. H611) th6II1t0 help you. trations of mobile “germ factories.” and the terrorist organization. The will meet history’s calling, though. that the wealthiest 5% get 95% of the tax cut breaks. Is

In short, the solution is not, as some have The deadly senii—trailers and boxcars dictator has harbored terrorists, pro- Thankfully, and contrary to the com— this the best way to accomplish economic reform? It

" argued, a dry campus. The solution is not the C811 be 001151211111)!    Vided training camps for plaints of. many ill-informed d0p011dS 011 3/0111 60011011110 1301111 0f Vi0W- B111, 0116
destruetiori of Traveller’ either The solution is and easily moved RIGHT OF THE ABLE them in northern Iraq peaceniksi, we are not alone: Austra- should speak of it civilly. ' ‘

i to rework and reinvest in the enrrent System. arouiicli tiI'i16 coiiii1i— BRETTT Kim/iN ‘O4 aind coioiirdiinatecilefforts ha and Brlitain havie bleen allitites sinlce thi Hasiritiaﬂigeniiileebate left this campus, O1‘CVeI1'WOI'S€,
_ try a t e w i e - 1 __ t roug ‘s inte igence ay one. ast wee , enmar , ta y, snation. ssues e taxation or government programs,
‘r producing anthrax services. Until Saddam the Czech Republic, Spain, Portugal, abortion, and the death penalty have all been beaten to
' and botulinum toxin. Saddam has is taken out, terrorists worldwide will Poland and Hungary all pledged sup— death; the people who argue over these issues, especially
stockpiled thousands of gallons and, have a powerful and dangerous ally. port for a war to disarm Iraq. Follow— the latter two, have been reduced to effectively screaming

as Powell showed with a photograph So, what to do now that the case ing the speech, Albania, Bulgaria, at the other side about how wrong they are.
.  Of   of a Mirage fighter jet, has experi— has been made so clearly and irrefut- Croatia, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, This is not the America that Jefferson had in mind

1!‘ merited spraying these deaths from ably? France and China have asked Macedonia, Romania, Slovakia and when he drafted the Declaration of Independence. We

the air. that the inspections regime be Slovenia agreed that the evidence is are no longer an “educated citizenry,” we are a “party
Saddam’s nuclear weapons pro- strengthened and lengthened. This “incontrovertible” and a war neces— and issue loyalty above all” citizemy too weak—minded
“Housing  this area has doubled  to  giram,dt(i:ot,hviIizi1s Ierxpohsed. Poiiirteil sughestcioln, andtanyi othiciar in favor sary. How many moirefnations must to   abpiﬁilssues. It is my h0p((itlIi‘lt2:Itiali3H1ri&i1ey
A _ s owe 0 at aq as soug 1 — urt er e ay, is siinp yn cu ousan support our action e ore we’re no remaining oug conservatives an er s a e
' I'CCI1l1ll lhﬂ last flVC ears . . .” legal aluminum tubes crucial in the downri ht dan erous. Providin lon er actin unilaterall ? will be able to come to some consensus on government
g g 8 g g Y t
, manufacture of nuclear weapons and Saddam with more inspectors to de- The evidence is in and the case policy when our generation becomes the leading one.
 Lowe SM2111ag€1 attempted to purchase prohibited ceive will not change the situation. is clear. To echo President Bush, Otherwise, Congress will resemble nothing more than
n  The Trident, our estoernod Competition magnets and equipment used to en— The UN must now prove that it will “Let’s roll.” our editorial sections do now.

that a well-intentioned student might be convicted of an act
that he could not have known was an Honor Violation? As
such, is the single-sanction the only appropriate punish-

dalism? Your participation in the coming survey largely de-
termines our recommendations to the EC regarding current
student opinion on speciﬁc matters such as these.

v M J_ Sam Slice Mr White Book review unden/ray, input sought
DearEditor,

Editor in chief Katie J. Howell

0Pi"i0"S E61170’ B1'e“T- Kifwall Since its first meeting in September, the White Book merit foranHV, or does it perhaps require administrators and When the WBRC solicited the responses of alumni a

Arts & Life Editor Catherine C. Guy Review Committee has solicited the opinions of alumni, students to overlook small Honor infractions simply because few months ago, the Honor System was overwhelmingly

it Photo Editor J eb Brooks students, and faculty regarding the state of the Honor Sys— the punishment seems incommensurate with the crime? endorsed as the ﬁnest and most enduring aspect of a W&L
Sports Editor Erin J lllius tem and has considered various proposals for the modifica— One of the issues the WBRC has debated most heat- education. It is our duty on the Committee to ensure that

Asst. News Editor Caley Anderson tion thereof. A edly is the matter of conﬁdentiality surrounding EC trials. this deﬁning institution at W&L remains something in which
Photographers Tallie Jamison On the most abstract level, we have considered how Does the strict conﬁdentiality leave EC members unaccount- students take pride. In the coming weeks, the WBRC will

K C0dyGabbard well and on what principles the Honor System functions. able as elected representatives? The difﬁculty is balancing circulate a survey to ascertain the opinions of those in the
COP)’ Edimr Donny Banks Does the Honor System effectively fostera “community of the desire to see EC members held responsible for their W&L community. In the meantime, White Books are al-

trust?” Or does it operate as a prosecutoiial system based decisions and the desire to protect the rights of the ac- ways available outside the EC ofﬁce, and your thoughts

Business Manager Paul Seifert mostly on fear? cused. Requiring the EC, collectively or individually, to write and perspectives as students, faculty, and administrators

A3515 B “S "1955 M “"085 V Th0m3S Worthy W&L’s Honor System prides itself on being a system opinions substantiating their rulings might not only leave are most welcome at whitebook@wlu.edu. The participa-

!‘ Circulation Director Henry Grimball ' that can adapt with each new generation of students rather them open to harassment, but, in detailing the specifics of tion of the entire W&L community in this triannual process
AdV€"iSi"8 A5 S is 10711 McQueen Ca1Ve1't than 21 Codiﬁed Set Of p10SCIibcd actions. But does the “ly— an alleged honor offense, it would likely reveal the identity is crucial to the ongoing vitality of the Honor System in the

« _ i t i _ irig, cheating, stealing” clause on the first page of the White
d ThedR’"ig‘t”i’i” Pif” 13 plilgilflshijfd hidondagidurtline the Book contradict the Honor System’s claim to be non-codi-

u.n er"ra. ua 6 SC .00. year a as ”‘.g on an Ce “‘V°T' ﬁed, and in the process perhaps limit what the EC is likely to

H‘ sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi— Consider as a breach of Honor? Does the Home , led na

cations Board elects the Editor in chief, but The Ring-tum _
phi is otherwise independent. tiire of the Honor System leave students in the dark, such

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible subniis—
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
)1 phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
pm. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring—tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
ly veitising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court defini-
tions of libel and obscenity.

of the accused. At the same time, current procedure pre-
vents students from knowing if their EC representatives are
indeed representing their opinions and views on Honor.
As for specifics, should any or’ all of the following be
considered HV’s: Fake ID usage? Sexual misconduct? Van-

years to come.
Sincerely,
The White Book Review Committee

SEE LETTERS, PAGE 4

   f1Y011’ve seen iecentl 

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Addre.s's.' 31 Washirzgton Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

      

” ’e“"‘ .i54‘;’. e‘62i‘40if9 “Robert E. Lee. . . alive.” “A couple holding hands.” “Wax jackets.” “Social conformity.” ‘Ei0I::r:$1:;::favtv2-
ma1.'prwu.eu r . r ‘t . r e 0 [1,
imp‘,//phi Wiuiedu -Jacob Spencer 06 —Matthias Dachtler 03 -Joanna Slack— Exchange —Dave Newheiser 03 g_Sam Ruseu ‘ii

 

    

PAGE 4

Hollywood behoden to

With the exception of former U.S. Seriator-tumed-‘ ‘Law
& Order”-star Fred Thompson, policy-makers largely stay
out of the acting world. Why can’t it be the other way
around?

Granted, Ronald Reagan did successfully make the
jump from acting to leadership, but he was always a much
better leader than he was an actor. Of late, a group of
Hollywood stars so anti-Republican they put Barbra
Streisand to shame have made a sport of slamming the
Bush administration’s Iraq policy. Apparently, they won’t
be happy until Matt Damon is installed as Secretary of
Defense. ' '

Of course, in times of national crisis and on issues of
national importance, it is imperative to include a mix of
intelligent, insightful voices from a variety of perspec-
tives. This current movement, however, cannot be seen as
anything but stubborn attention-grabbing by a Left Coast
coterie. The baffling and obstinate “Hollywood loves Iraq”
mentality can best be summed up by this recent dialogue
between a CNN interviewer and Martin Sheen, who’s not
a president but plays one on TV. A

CNN: “Suppose you are wrong (about a pre—emptive
strike against Iraq). Suppose that’s what is needed.”

Sheen: “I don’t understand how I would be wrong.”

These actors actually believe statements like that are
effective refutations against hard evidence of Saddam
Hussein’s reign of terror.

Not to be outdone by the likes of Hanoi J ane-warmabe
Sheen, a.k.a “Baghdad Bartlett,” Sean
Penn has added his voice to the mix. In
October, the actor-tumed-activist of
Dead Man Walking fame dropped
$50,000 to print a full-page ad oppos-
ing a possible war.

Then, Penn spent three days in December making
front-page news touring Iraq (escorted by Saddam’s lack-
eys) and slamming the Bush administration for its “crimes”
against the Iraqi people (ostensibly, no one told him of

RIGHT ON!
[QHN  HEATH ‘()4 * the ex—Mr. Madonna. Could it be that, in

MONDAY, FEBRUARY N, 2003

UEiNioNs

     
  

Hussein’s numerous human rights violations and his dic-
tatorial brutality). After returning home, he quietly admit-
ted that the Butcher of Baghdad had used him as a propa-
gandistic tool for the brutal regime.

Not to question the actor’s motives for visiting Iraq,
but before his three—day stint as a
Saddam’s personal propaganda puppet,
Penn was perhaps best known as being

his mind, being a washed-up political ac-
‘tivist is better than being a washed-up actor?

Thankfully, the American people have enough sense

to pay attention to actors on the screen and ignore them
in real life. One can only hope that the United Nations and
our European fair—weather friends can steel their nerves.

“-e”iP°ma<>>'

' Huoaxmrsruiuanbcarii
WANNABE. Martin Sheen, above asjosiah Bartlett of “The West Wing,” wishes he could play president on more than just TV.

After Colin Powell’s dramatic performance at the Security
Council last Wednesday, only the most remote bastions
of American liberals refused to see Saddam for the threat

I he is. Remarkably, our “friends” on the other side of the

Atlantic did not seem moved.

The U.N. ’s Resolution 1441 clearly stipulates that any
false statement, omission, or other form of non—coopera-
tion with the inspection process would be considered a
“material breach.” Now is a do-or-die moment for the United
Nations; if they do not enforce their own mandates, they
risk more than creating enmity among Americans—they
risk irrelevance.

Let’s not let Sean Penn and his ilk command the spot-
light on this issue. It’s time for the diplomats to prove that
they know how to do more than double-park.

Plagarism and deception plague efforts on Iraq

Blair published dossier largely stolen from dated academic papers; is deception leading us to war?

Things are getting a bit murky in the
world of international politics. E! In a time
when world leaders are trying to make
cases against Iraq and convince those
skeptical that war is the only option, the
truth is not always what is to be found.

“Blair acknowledges ﬂaws in Iraq
dossier,” from Friday’s Washington
Post, shedsﬁl light on the issue by point-
ing out some major flaws in the docu-
ments that
the British
Prime Minis-
ter used to
convince
British citi-
zens of the severity needed in dealing
with the Iraqi nation.

The nineteen-page dossier, entitled
“Iraq —— Its Infrastructure of Conceal-
ment, Deception and Intimidation,”
states in its introduction that it was writ-
ten using several accountable sources,
including intelligence material. How-
ever, when the British intelligence ser-
vice was asked about the document their
spokesman stated that they were in no
way involved in the creation of the _
document.DTheir only explanation was 4
that the document was solely a creation
of 10 Downing Street.

What is more, the document is not
even as genuine as that.ElUpon further
inspection, the document is found to
be mostly carbon copies of academic
papers.l]Blai'rs dossier used excerpts
from a twelve year old paper written by
a California graduate student that re-
ferred to intelligence reports leading up
to the Gulf War.l1This portion of the

LEi~'i or CENTER
NICK RAMSEY ‘O3

     

FAKE Like Tom Skeham, a Tony Blair look-alike, the Prime Ministers dossier Wasn’t all it seemed

ons inspector Scott Ritter, who opposes
President Bush’s Iraq policy.

The Prime Minister’s press secre-
taries also were forced to admit that the
off1ce’s junior communications staff, not
British intelligence, assembled much of
the dossier. V

But deception does not stop
here}? We other academic papers were
used in this falsified report, including a
paper from last year published in the
Middle East Review of International
Affairsﬂ

That article's author, Cambridge‘
University lecturer Glen Rangwala stated
that by his calculations eleven of the
nineteen pages of Blair’s dossier “were
taken wholesale from academic papers,”
reported the Post.

Here in the U.S., the problem is that
this dossier was cited by Colin Powell
in his address to the United Nations
Security Council last
Wednesday.DPowell praised the docu-
ment for its “exquisite detail.” How can
a plagiarized document relying on re-
ports that are more than a decade old
give any relevant information to cur-
rent situations in Iraq?

I am still not saying that there is i
no problem with Saddam Hussein’s
actions.DHoweve,rI think a statement
made by Britain’s former Defense Min-
ister Peter Kilfoyle says it best: U “Itjust
adds to the general impression that
what we have been treated to is a far-
rago of half-truths, assertions and
over-the-top spin. I am afraid this is
typical of the way in which the whole
question of a potential war on Iraq is

LETTERS, FROM PAGE 3

,1 Blacks not underrepresented in Greeks

Dear Editor,

I am writing to respond to last weeks article
“Blacks rush, pledge” and I’d like to title this response
“Whites choose to ignore big picture.” The fact of the
matter is that the school does not really present Greek
organizations as racist and a number of minority stu-
dents do not have the belief that they are.

Since we want to talk statistics, I’d like to point out
that among the population ofblack students there are about
21 males. Of that‘2l there are currently about six participat-
ing iri the Greek system. That is over 25%. In other words,
over a quarter of the minorities eligible to be part of a frater-

nity do so. I think that statistically that is a pretty big chunk. O

For some reason, it is difficult for people to accept
that most black students do not want to spend thou-
sands of dollars to listen to bands we don’t like, drink
beer we don’t want and participate in a host of other
events that don’t appeal to us. Those who are inter-
ested in such things go for it and are supported by the
black community. In fact there have some cases in which
a black student has been both Greek and a member of

MSA at the same time. So you cannot accuse MSA of .

encouraging segregation in that manner.
We are on a small campus full of individuals and
we should respect and appreciate each other as indi-

viduals and stop trying to make everyone be the same. 0

Sincerely,
Kaela Harmon ‘05

“Know” was a no-no

Dear Editor,

On the point that the original Hebrew word trans-
lated “know” in Genesis 19:5 does not have sexual impli-
cations, look at these verses in Genesis which use the
same Hebrew root, yadha: 4:17, 4:25, 19:8, 24:16, and
38:26. It is true that the same root is used in an innocent

sense in other verses, but the context of “know” in these 0

verses makes it clear that it is not quite so innocent.
Indeed, Lot characterizes the Sodomites’ request to

“know” as wicked. How would a desire to meet someone

be a breach of hospitality and wicked, deserving of the

total destruction of two cities? Additionally, why would ,

Lot offer his virgin daughters in place of his visitors?
The theory that “the sin” of Sodom and Gomorrah was
inhospitality simply does not hold up under scrutiny.
Sodom and Gomorrah were wicked in all their ways. .-

It is true that the Bible has been used to justify
evils in the past. But Christ’s message was about more
than love and acceptancewit was also about truth,
faith, repentance, and salvation. “Repent: for the king-
dom of heaven is at hand” (Matthew 4:17). “He that
believeth in him is not condemned: but he that believeth
not is condemned already” (John 3: 18).

In the ﬁiture, Mr. Ramsey, you might do more thor-
ough research.
Sincerely,
Kyle Sulli, ‘06

Lewis wrong on abortion,‘ God does care

Dear Editor,

Rian Lewis’ (“Abortion better off Legal,” February 3)
argument is shaky at best, and downright unintellectual
at worst. In fact, I was frightened when 1 read it. She seems
to argue that because in “medieval times” poor, victimized
would-be mothers induced miscarriages and carried out
abortions, we should be thankful of the “safe, sterile”
abortions that modern medicine provides. There is no
such thing as a “safe” abortion—successful abortions
have a 100% fatality rate, guaranteed.

Once again, the disarming rhetoric of “rights con-
cerning a woman’s body” is laid on thick. Hiding be-
hind the term “pro-choice,” she believes that a woman
has the right to choose whether or not to abort the
baby. So, if you support her choice . . . and her choice
is to abort . . . then you are for abortion in these cases.

As misguided as Lewis is, she is a gift from God. In
fact, the acts of love and sexual union are also gifts
from God. So don’t kid yourself; God has everything to
do with every action and every sexual union. The mis-
use and abuse of one of God’s greatest gifts is not
something to be taken lightly, horny or not.

If I were Ms. Lewis, I wouldn’t.be as concerned
with the Supreme Court as I would be with my court
date in front of The Most Supreme. Doing 25 to life is

document cites no current intelligence Post, “The dossier even repeated the ish newspaper, The Times, reported that being treated.”

whatsoever.ElMoreove,rthis piece of paper’s typographical errors.”
Saturday, the embarrassment deep-

propaganda does not even credit the

the California student that authored the
paper actual.ly gathered his information

Why are our world leaders trying
to sell the public a war against a decep-

easy compared to eternity. Deal with that. '
Sincerely,

paper it copied from.ElAccording to the ened for the Prime Minister when a Brit— from a 1999 book by the former weap- tive tyrant with deception? Joseph M. Harouni ‘O5

Em51s0'D0-§2.000fm':;ooaa'Shidei'#Grmp—-

, ,. "fired of the Old Valentlroe

C31-ind‘?

Roses, Teololg Bears 1 . _ >'

Heart shaped Boxes of clioootate
GET (‘)B_(3I.-N°:fll.lll

M ‘F

Fun Foods & Accessories 1

To Really Make Your Sweetheart Smile‘ ,,

 
    

    

  ..

 

]“.&‘)§t}:tx;'}" l’v.ii'ii.iir.-i.i:s7r"1j; crsilisiins. ixse-riladfilit. No  ﬁn siilﬁisi. Just "§I.K1i£$2li§
‘ Fi§i‘l1,"§*'§li'I.li’lﬁ date; we tilt:-1,; qislizkly. rte: with the pmgravars fleas! WM?!

6s.a...mpus »

ii‘i<'m.r '1‘}ri.»iri'r!»ii¥ .'.4‘r2im:r fr)? >£‘rif!¢:s;*¢: }"'rii.rir.‘l'mii.i-£r:,g.

 ~ rtiirlstamrvslsriifralset-as

Make a difference 1'l'iis

# 1 Spring Break Vacations!

Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, & Florida.
Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices!
Group Discounts, Group organizers travel free!
Space is limited! Hurry up & Book Now!
1-800-234-7007

   

www.endlesssummertours.com summer Wh|l€ h(lV|ﬂg ‘H18 [Ignaz '|u|||.'|.'|,:s
° ° PASSION DROP!
‘time of_ your life . mmmmu“   g
- . . Counselors and ClC‘l'IVl‘l'y leaders needed to ‘ “gm”
2 bedroom apartment for rent in Lexington .
for next school yearfor $550.00 per month. work OT Summer: Pumps for Chddren and lo-VI!‘-lg‘!
Low cost central heatand air conditioning. Richmond and Roanoke, Vlf‘9ll'll0- CClmP "N. _ ‘I
, 0WneFPaYSf0rWate|'&SeWer- season: early June—mid August. .
Common area washer & dryer. ‘ Visi-r our. webs;-re 01- 13 5‘ Md" sggmuve ~464"4433
Call Realtor Joe Vita at Vita &Associates, Inc. WWW.va.eaS,rer,_sea's_or,g/r,ichmond V5

at 463-9551 for details. j(°"°"’  5”“ ’ 3*” Wm‘ ’ “W °”‘‘“’’°’-'’ 9‘

or call (804) 633-9855.

 

 

‘V

CATHERINE C. GUY
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR "l"l*II‘-9' RlN(}"'ll'l.i\’l Pill
¥EMAlL:GUYC@WLU.EI)U  &  K____
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2003 PAGE 5 Q

*Marshall Museum misses mission

By HAYNES KING however, most of the information is displayed on big
’ TRAVEL CORRESPONDENT boards typed out. Overall, this is nothing particularly
impressive.

At the other esteemed institute of higher learning
right here in our ﬁne town of Lexington, and no, I am not
referring to Rockbridge County High, I visited the
Marshall Museum this week. After ﬁnally mustering up

Ithe courage to cross over and make the dangerous
voyage over to VMI, I felt better because I know that I
don ’t have to attend school in that prison. Well enough
of this digression, lets get back to the destination at
hand...

The Marshall Museum is dedicated to one of VMI’s
most beloved and well-known alumni, George C.
Marshall. In 1901, Marshall graduated from the Virginia
Military Institute as the highest ranking cadet. Upon
rjgraduation, he then joined the military and was trained

as an officer prior to the outbreak of World War I. In
1939, Franklin D. Roosevelt chose Marshall to be the
Army Chief of Staff. Most of you probably know
Marshall best for his famous “Marshall Plan”, which he
formulated as Secretary of State after the second World
War. He was given the Nobel Peace Prize in 1953 for his
work in this ofﬁce.

If you are a big WWII buff, or even ifyoujust like

(the military a lot, then I would recommend that you go
and visit this historical museum. I personally thought
that the museum had way too much information that
you had to read. To fully take in all that this museum
has to offer, one would spend a large amount of time
‘doing nothing but reading. There are some audio and
visual aids to enhance your tour of the museum;

4'

*Playin’ in basement

“Art enhances the soul. ”
“Music gives hope in the existence of a God. ”
:7 —Kurt Vonnegut

Java Night at the GHQ: what’s expected is
never there, while the unexpected is always sitting
at the table next to you, waiting for that ideal time

‘when you think everything is fine and ordinary to
surprise you once more. (Hence, all attempts at
studying during Java will prove to be a futile
effort.)

,» Upon hearing about “Alex Wilkins and Friends”
playing at Java, I decided to waltz on over to the
GHQ. With a test the next morning, I planned to settle
comfortably in a booth, have a nice latte and listen to
the music while diligently reviewing my notes on

’‘ plate tectonics (oceanography class). As it turned
out, “Alex Wilkins and Friends” surprised me with
the unexpected.

Walking into the GHQ’s “basement,” I

‘ discovered that not only was the band interacting
with the audience, but also one of the band
members was actually verbally assaulting a front-
row audience
member! What the

Vheck? I thought
myself with
smile.

The band
member continued his banter, continually directed at
that poor, distraught soul in the audience, until ﬁnally
dedicating the next "song to him, entitled, “Grieco.”

The band members are an eclectic and somewhat
random group: Alex Wilkins, the so-called

#“ringleader” of the group, conﬁdent and always in
control; Jordan Wolff, the humorous, sarcastic, and
light—hearted guitar player (and who writes songs like
“Grieco”); Connor Kirsch playing the percussion - a
chill, come-what—may type of guy; and Laurence Eaton
who sings the laid—back Robert Earl or Willie Nelson
songs — a quiet, content dreamer on the mandolin
and bass.

So what happens when you throw four distinct

xand opposing personalitiestogether in a band? It’s
either a) complete disaster from the start or b) a
reﬂection of diversity in its most ﬂavorful light — a
melting pot of gold.

Alright, so that sounds a bit cheesy and the band

‘(members themselves are probably leaning more
towards answer “a.” However, I thought the show
was an “extra”ordinary (meaning, much more than
ordinary) mix of genres, themes, and tunes. Playing

y the latest hits from the DJ party Saturday night (“Hey,
must be the money!”) mixed with some Rolling Stones
and Beatles, while occasionally throwing in a few of
those down-to—earth cowboy tunes, the band
presented the audience with a wonderful blend of

‘feel good music, poetry, and nostalgia. And with
several self-written songs, “Alex Wilkins and Friends”
deﬁnitely created for themselves a profoundly unique
persona and a show nothing short of craziness, fun,

);and good times.

They’re the new and upcoming band — so be sure
to hear them play: Wednesday of Honor Scholars Week
(place TBA). According to Wilkins, “We’ll play
anytime, anywhere, for any large amount of money!”

‘Oh, and they’re in search for a new band name — any

ideas?

I

' Write for Life!

 

ON THE ARTS
_LAURA LEIGH BIRDWELL ‘O3

call x4060 or email guyc@wlu.edu

 

The highlight of the Marshall museum
experience would certainly have to be the replica army
jeep located in the front hall. The best part of it is
that they will even let you climb up in it and play
around.

Luckily, this museum tour is free to all visiting
students from Washington and Lee. Otherwise, I
would have been extremely disappointed that I had
spent my good money to visit this place. And I
definitely wouldn’t ever even think of taking a date
here.

I would feel really bad giving this historical
museum zero tridents, so I decided that I would give it
one. But after walking out of the museum, looking
across the parade grounds, and being overwhelmed
with the feeling of“Damn I’m so glad that I don’t go
to school here,” I had to give it an extra half trident

just for that.

Haynes and Jeb give the Marshall Museum 1 1/2 out of5 Tridents.

Haynes and J eb will be back in March to give
more travel advice

W&L needs code of behavior for laundry room

BY AsHLEY METZLOFF
STAFF WRITER

We’ve all done it. And at some point in our
lives, we’ve all had it done for us. No, I’m not talking
about that (whatever your that may be, it definitely
isn’t what I’m talking about); I’m talking about
laundry!

Laundry is the bane of every working person’s
existence, a constant but necessary evil that has
plagued mankind since the exeunt from the Garden of
Eden. We all need to wear clothes unless we are the
young gentleman from 31 l, and we all have to wash
those clothes in order to exist and function in modern-
day society. After all, no one wants to be the stinky
kid. So what we’re going to talk about today, boys
and girls, is the culture of what I like to call laundry
etiquette.

I first noticed that laundry had an overt culture
when I came to W&L this past fall. Until then I had
always done laundry in the privacy of my own home
(I still do my own laundry when I go home), but
with my entry into the brave new world of college
also came the entry into the brave new world of...
using public laundry machines. There are several
problems with public laundry culture; basically,
some people have proper laundry etiquette, and
some do not.

There are two main types of launderers: those who
dump the previous occupant’s laundry wherever is
convenient so they can do their own wash, and those
who show up at the exact minute when their clothes
are ﬁnished so they may protect their precious clothes
from being thrown wherever is convenient for the
person who is stalking their machine like an intent
bird of prey.

Perhaps the “remove promptly” types are
concerned about wrinkles, perhaps they don’t like the
idea of their newly washed clothes being thrown
haphazardly down onto the dusty floor, or perhaps
they just don’t like the idea of a stranger plunging
their dirty hands that have been Lord—knows-where

into an elbow-deep pile of their unmentionables.
Whatever the reason, these members of the “remove
promptly” class certainly have their act together. Yay
for them!

As for those of you who fall into the dumper
category, shame! How could you? Why can you not
wait? Surely you must have faith
in the launderer before you,
surely you must believe that any
moment they will come to rescue
their parent-paid-for clothes, fold
them diligently and with the
utmost of care, thus freeing up
the machine and allowing you to
use it to its fullest potential and
continue the great laundry circle
oflife.

But you... You lose hope so
quickly. Perhaps you have tried
to hold out before and have been
bitterly disappointed, waiting on
the same washer for three
consecutive days, staying up
nights watching and waiting,
watching and waiting until you became as dejected
as Ms. Havisham from Great Expectations and lost
all hope. I can see you now in that first bitter
moment: You step in with your plastic hamper full of
crumpled clothing and scan the machines to see if
any are unoccupied. Seeing that none are, you look
at the machines with wads and wads of finished
clothing still inside, and then the idea first leaks
into your mind  All you have to do to complete
your own wash is... move them.

It all seems so simple, so trivial, but then comes
the moral questioning. Is it right to move someone
else’s clothes without their permission? Your mother
always told you not to mess with things that don’t
belong to you, so you scan the premises to see ifthe
owner is absentmindedly standing by. The only
person you see is me sitting on top of a washing
machine appearing to do homework while I’m really

I FIRST NOTICED THAT
LAUNDRY HAD AN OVERT
CULTURE \x/HEN I CAME TO
W&L THIS PAST
‘ PALL.TIIERE ARE sEvERAL
PROBLEMS WITH PUBLIC
LAUNDRY CULTURE;
BASICAIIY, SOME PEOPLE
HAVE PROPER LAUNDRY
ETIQUETTE, AND SOME DO
NOT.

IE3 BRooIc/ 7heRing4um Phi -
THE PRIDE or: VMI: The Virginia Military Institutes Marshall Museum and itsjeep (insert) are free to all W&L students.

watching your every move to see what you’ll do next I

because I’m doing laundry research, and since I
clearly do not wear boxers, you decide that the owner
is not present. You shift in your steps, befuzzled and

confused, and finally after a full three seconds, you i
decide to do what’s best for you. You shove and‘
unconsciously‘
supporting the great laundry law’

stuff, thus
of every man for himself. You exit,
satisfied with your assertive
nature, just as a young man enters

the floor. _ L, ,. ,

Other laundry no-no’s:
Gentlemen, ifyou must wash your
jock straps in the public laundry
room, please, please, please do
NOT leave them therewhen your
washer/dryer is the only one
available to use. There are some

things that we girlsjust don’t want’

to see.

Also, please remove all band-aids before you
place your clothes in the washing machine (yes, this
is from an actual experience). I mean... yuck. And
although it’s not technically a rule, removing the lint
from the dryer filter is always a considerate and kind
gesture.

Laundry tip: If you’re a fraternity pledge, I
recommend using Victoria’s Secret luxury detergent
and lavender water on any laundry you are forced to
do that does not belong to you. They told you that
you had to wash their clothes— they didn’t say with
what.

So ends the tragic tale, and so begins a new cycle
(forgive the pun) of soiled to clean. Life is beautiful,
and don’ t you forget it. So remember kids: Be on time
to pick up your wash, stay off the drugs, tell your
momma you love her, and always, always use
detergent.

Tyranny of groundho g Punxsutawney Phil ends now

BY DANIEL PORT
DAILY TROJAN (U. SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA)

(U—WIRE) LOS ANGELES — Sunday was just another day
in California. The scent of smog and homeless people
peppered downtown Los Angeles and there were few
clouds in the sky.

For the winter-experiencing or “real” United States,
however, Sunday meant another visit from Punxsutawney
Phil, a groundhog that foretells whether
spring will be early by the appearance of his
shadow.

This delightful tradition stretches
back more than 100 years. Phil has
appeared in ﬁlms and television and has
met celebrities such as Pennsylvania Gov.
Ed Rendell and even Oprah Winfrey.
Young people love his adorable buck teeth
and fuzzy cheeks and old people love him
because, well, old people love everything.
His charm, however, is a charade to mask
the startling truth.

Punxsutawney Phil is pure evil.

Phil seems to think it’s cute and funny to curse this
country with another six weeks of winter. His “predictions”
are startlingly accurate — a bit too accurate. Theorists
have proposed that the groundhog does, indeed, control
the weather. The facts don’t lie.

Of the 107 recorded predictions made by
Punxsutawney Phil, 93 predicted winter would continue.

 

PUNXSATAWNEY PHIL

My meteorological research conﬁrms that, indeed, winter
tends to last past Feb. 2. Very interesting.

Year in, year out, it’s the same thing: our country falls

victim to the meteorological omniscience of this deceptive
and manipulative ground-dweller. I say no more!
My attempts to book an interview with this devious rodent
were met by runaround and miscommunications. The
Punxsutawney City Hall referred me to a fan club phone
number, where his secretary or “lackey” scoffed at my
attempts to contact Phil.

“You want to talk to who?”

“Phil.”

“Phil? The groundhog?”

“That’s right.”

“Are you on any medication right now?”

“Don’t change the subject, lady. I want
that weather—controlling fur ball on the phone
rightnow!”

Obviously fearing I knew the truth, she
hung up. Lacking the funds to travel to
Pennsylvania, or even make another long-
distance call, I searched the Internet for some
insight into the activities and motivations of
this shadow—seeker.

I discovered that records of Punxsutawney Phil’s
“predictions” date as far back as 1887. That means that
this groundhog has outlived his life span by at least 90
years. So not only does Mr. Groundhog control the
weather and act nauseatingly cute, he is apparently also
immortal.

Our country has fallen victim to this beast for the last
time.

I have a plan. Just the other day I happened to catch
part of a documentary involving both time—travel and
groundhogs.

The main character was both amusing and brilliant
regarding all things groundhog. Thus, by enlisting the
help of this “Bill Murray,” I’m sure I can free our country
from the claws of our hole-digging demigod.

Only seven of the last nine years have been attached
to Phil’s reign of continuous winter, so it appears he is not
completely without compassion. This, however, will be
exploited as weakness and used to overtake him in a
horribly bloody offensive. It’ll be like that scene in the
cave in “xXx,” except without all the poor acting and
baldness.

Phil will likely utilize his weather—controlling skills to
try and strike down myself, Mr. Murray and our some
10,000 armed militia members. As Phil bombards us with
hail, sleet and lightning, we will attempt to collapse his
underground fortress in the manner employed by Murray,
albeit unsuccessfully, in another one of his documentaries.
This one involved golf, I believe.

So join me in my crusade to thwart an aggressor that
has extended winter in 93 of the last 116 years. Help
ensure that Feb. 2 will be marked by wives starting to
nag their husbands about Valentine’s Day, not burrowing
rodents named Phil dictating weather changes. The time
is now.

Lock and load, Mr. Murray.

and begins to exclaim through the ’
mediums of profanity that his '
c_lo.t_hAes haveiallibeienﬁdumped onto '

  

 

 SPoRTs

 

Women’s basket   

BY Joan HYLAND
SPORTS WRITER

_ The Washington and Lee
women’s basketball team snapped
a four game losing streak with a
44-38 victory over Randolph-Ma-
con Women’s College on Wednes-
day night and then lost a tough
55-50 decision to Guilford. Both
games were played in the Warner
Center.

Their win improved the Generals’
record to 3-14, 3-12 ODAC while the
loss dropped
RMWC’s record

C}.«‘e.'1'<{j.E1 nir. 1.~.ER'r

Wildcats to just 29 percent shooting.
Forward Emily Barker, ‘05 made 6
of those steals. W&L also held
RMWC’s leading scorer, Meghan
Stenrud, who came into the game av-
eraging over 17 points, to just 7.

While the Generals did not trail
at any point during the game, they
did play a fairly sloppy second half in
which they shot just 19 percent and
scored only 16 points.

Twice, the Wildcats cut the
game to within ﬁve points during the
second half with just over 8 minutes

left and at the
1:20 mark. The

t0 3-14, 1-12 Generals, how-
ODAC GET.\'E‘.R~21:'~I.3 it-:; i’i£ffl3‘E€:irI“a'; even Would not
The Gener- yield further and
als Opened the MEX? W"E4Ei”;: were able to pre-
game 0" e “*2 Ti_I1:sn..u*:  I~'-sir- Serve the Vie-
run and took a V __ wry,
comfortable 23- .x'.<::...r«-.E*«tt.~:IT EE:»E€31€7t" .9;...‘.€1”r on Friday
15 lead into the ['_%:VE-- night, the Gener-
half. a ' als hosted a tal-
Themajority WEDNESBAYF  ented Guilford
Of W&L’S Of‘  team that entered

fense came from
forward Sarah
Michaels, ‘04
and guard Louisa Feve, ’O6, who
scored all but 10 of the team’s points.

Michaels ﬁnished the game with
19 points, 10 rebounds and 3 steals
while F eve added 15 points, 10 boards
and 4 steals.

The Generals dominated this
game defensively with a tough,
swarming defense that made 19 steals
and forced 30 turnovers and held the

Men drop two, comeba Snfternoon 

the game with a

13-5, 10-3 ODAC

record, leaving
them just a game out of first place in
the ODAC to Emory and Henry.

It was clear from early on in the
game why Guilford has been so suc-
cessful this season. They are a very
athletic team that plays a disciplined
game and has a lot of depth. Never-
theless, this game was very tight from
the beginning.

The first half was a defensive

Generals manage a win against Lynchburg

BY AIusoN PERRY
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s
basketball team added two losses to
their record this week, but came back
on Sunday to win.

The Generals fell to Emory and
Henry, 67-80, on Wednesday and to
Hampden-Sydney, 60-67, on Saturday.
W&L pulled out a close win over
Lynchburg on Saturday, 63-62.

The Generals held E&H guard
Justin Call to 16 points on Wednes-
day, down from the 46 points he
scored in their last meeting.

W&L was down 44-3 1 at the half,
but cut the Wasps’ lead to 50-44 with
14:35 left in the second half.

E&H’s 41.3 percent shooting for
the game helped them to add another
30 points before the half was over.

The Generals had 23 turnovers
and 36.4 percent shooting for the
game.

Sophomore guard Ian McClure
led the Generals with 13 points, with 4
shots from three-

point range. game.
Freshman Shooting
forward Phil Scot[Het[e1manadded17 percentage from
Landes also - the ﬂoor was
added 12 points p°“’_t5’9mb‘_’und5"nF14 close with.
for the team.  L y n c h b u r g
T h e Hamﬂlalsoputinlopoims shooting 42.6
H a m p d e n - and th and W&L shoot-
Sydney Tigers Sleboundsm egame ing45.5.
handed W&L an- was broadcast on\WDRL- Hettermann
other loss Satur- - - led the Generals
day in a close TvW1rh950peOple1n with 16 points
game at Warner attendance andacareer-high

Center. With 4:40
left to go in the
game, McClure sank a free throw to
cut the Hampden-Sydney lead to one.
After several missed shots by the
Generals, Hampden-Sydney guard
Brandon Randall made two free
throws with 9 seconds left to end the
game.
The Generals had 21 turnovers
in contrast to the Tigers’ twelve.
McClure posted 22 points, and
senior captain Scott Hettermann
added 17 points, 9 rebounds, and 4
assists.
Junior captain Hamill Jones also

   
 

 G3 Sparta.

came watch ithe Generals’  we

put in 10 points and 6 rebounds.

The Tigers were led by junior
guard Jeff Monroe and junior guard
Brandon Randall, who both contrib-
utedl5 points each.

The game was broadcast by
WDRL-TV in Roanoke with 950
people in attendance.

The Hampden-Sydney Tigers re-
main undefeated at 21-0 overall and
15-0 in the ODAC. They are ranked
first in the ODAC and second in Divi-
sion III.

The Generals pulled out an
ODAC win on Sunday over the
Lynchburg Hornets also in Warner
Center.

With 11 seconds left to go in
the game, sophomore guard Mike
Stuart made a layup to secure the
win.

The game was tied up at 27-27
at the half. The Generals took their
highest lead in the second half
with a four-point advantage at 7:50
left to go. The lead went back-and-
forth several times after that until

the end of the

12 rebounds.

F r e s h In a n
guard Ryan Flynn also had a career-
high with 13 points. Stuart helped out
with a career-high seven assists.

The Hornets were led by sopho-
more center Ryan Pehanik with 18
points.

The Generals are now 6-15 overall
and 3-12 in the ODAC. They play in
more ODAC action next against Guilford.

W&L fell to the Quakers in a
close game, 55-57, when they met in
Warner Center on January 8"‘.

The conference match-up will be
at 7:00 p.m. at Guilford.

battle, as the Generals had a diffi-
cult time penetrating Guilford’s full
court press and tough, trapping
man-to-man defense, shooting just
18 percent from the ﬁeld in the ﬁrst
half.

On the other end of the court,
however, the Quakers also had trouble
scoring against the Generals zone de-
fense.

Guilford shot just 29 percent
from the field in the first half. For
the game, W&L was able to limit
leading scorer, sophomore forward
Courtney Hill, to just 2 points, well
below her season average of 15.6.
Guilford took a 19-17 lead into half-
time. ’

The scoring opened up in what
was a very exciting second half.
Guilford went on a 13-4 run early in
the half to give them a 35-24 lead with
13: 10 remaining. It seemed that
Guilford, the deeper team, would
cruise to victory.

Ten players for Guilford saw sig-
niﬁcant playing time while every
W&L starter played at least 33 min-
utes.

The Generals then went on 12-0
run of their own A 3-point shot by
Michaels with 5:45 left gave W&L a
43-41 advantage. Consecutive bas-
kets by Barker and Dannelly extended
the Generals’ lead to 47-41 with 4:27
remaining. '

Guilford came right back, however,
with three 3-point baskets, two consecu-
tive baskets by junior forward A.J.
Robertson and a ﬁnal trey from junior

guard Nicole McCrory that gave the
Quakers a 50-47 lead with 1:19 left. But
the Generals would not be denied.

JEE BRooI<s/IbeR1'ng4um Phi

Arnamrrr. Freshman David W111 goes up for a basket in Sunday’s game against

Lynchburg, which ended with a win for the Eagles.

..,,..

rientaizt Erin at X4060 fer detaiisl

 

--«M

  
   

KATIE HOWE1L/ 7beRing4um Pbi
Srnr.AusdnCaH1mmprepmestogoaﬂermeIeboundasSarahMidmelsmkesashot

Michaels hit a 3-pointer with 42

seconds remaining to tie the game at
50. The basket gave her 24 points for

    

ERINJIIIIUS

SPORTS EDITOR

EMAIL: JUIIUsE@WIII.EDU

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2005

the night, a game high. On the next
possession, McCrory found
Robertson again and she con-
nected on another 3-pointer, with
19 seconds left, to give Guilford a
53-50 lead that would turn out to be
the game winner.

Michaels was unable to
connect on the potential game-
tying three. Two free throws by
sophomore guard Aftan Medlin
sealed the Quakers 55-50 victory.

Despite the loss, the Gener-
als played an outstanding game
against a team that has the ODAC
title in its sights. This game was
tight in every way. Both teams
grabbed 34 rebounds. The Gen-
erals committed 16 turnovers to
Guilford’s 17 and the Generals
shot 35 percent from the ﬂoor for
the game while Guilford shot 36
percent.

In addition to Michaels excep-
tional offensive performance, the
Generals had some other notable
contributors. Feve finished the
game with 12 pints and 3 assists.
Dannelly added 10 points, 5 re-
bounds and 4 assists and senior
center and C0-captain Austin
Calhoun grabbed a game and ca-
reer-high 12 rebounds.

The Generals are next in action
Sunday afternoon at 2 in a non-
conference game against
Shenandoah. They get a chance to
avenge this loss in the ﬁnal game
of the regular season, on February
22 at Guilford.

Track competes at
Christopher Newport

BY MARY CImIsT0I>IIER
SPORTS WRITER

Plagued by injuries and absences,
the Generals expected a rough week-
end. They knew, however, that if they
worked hard individually good things
would come. 8

The throwers got the team off to a
great start. Brian Gallagher threw a
strong 35-10 and Chris Walker threw a
37-6.5, giving him a 18”‘ place ﬁnish.
For the women, Audrey Walker threw
a 30-10.5, resulting in her 12”‘ place fm-
ish. In the long jump, Senior Chris
Sullivan represented the Generals with
his leap of 22’2.

The sprint team also had many
strong performances. For the men
Chris Sullivan returned from his jump-
ing with two outstanding perfor-
mances. His 7.26 time in the 60m-dash
gave him a 5“ place in the Division 3
ﬁnals.

He also scored 13"‘ in the 200m
dash with a time of 23.60. Other 60m
dash runners, Lee Stinnett, Jonathan
Brimer, and Brian Krucpzak ﬁnished
with times of 7.72, 7.54, and 7.34 re-
spectively. In the men’s 200m dash,
Joe Greenhill, Hugo Diaz, and
Jonathan Brimer ran hard at 25.87,
25.32, and 24.21.

The women sprinters also did ex-
cellently in the 200m. Captain
Meredith Walker led the way with her
time of 29. 1 8, followed closely behind
by Kim Gunst with a 30.10 time, Amy
Bacastow with a 32.34, and Angel
Daniels witha 33.88.

The Lady Generals also competed
two runners in the 400m-dash as op-
posed to the 60m dash which they fre-
quently run. Meredith Walker ran a
66.12 and Kim Gunstran a 67.75 for her
first time ever running the event!
Many men also competed in the 400m
which was lead by Brian Krucpzak with
his time of54. 10 and Jonathan Brimer
at 54.29.

The distance team had a very in-
teresting collection of runners and

Wrestling Drops Two Matches

events. They were looking forward
to a strong Distance Medley Relay
team but due to the absence of Erin
Johnson, illness of Liz Twentyman,
and injury of Mary Christopher,
they had to withdraw.

Two of the women that were
able to perform Friday night did a
wonderful job. Samantha Snabes
and Jessica Remmert ran the 5000rn
run with times of 21:35.41 and
21:41.62. After recuperating that
evening, the pair went on to com-
pete in the 3000m run Saturday, Jes-
sica leading the way with a 12:41.78
closely followed by her counter
part Samantha, who ran a 12:43.42.

Unfortunately, the distance
squad was unable to enter anyone
in the 800m dash a very common
race for the Generals, but did race

two individuals in the 1500m. An- A

drew Johnson, with his injured
ankle, ran an outstanding 4:20.54
giving him a 24"‘ place overall ﬁn-
ish at the competitive meet. And,
due to the illness of Twentyman,
Mary Christopher took her spot in
the event, earning a 5: 19.26 time and
a 16"‘ place overall ﬁnish. Although
there weren’t many competitors for
the distance team the few that did
perform, performed well!

Although it was hard for the
coaches to deal with the great deal
of last minute changes, they
worked well under the pressure and
were extremely supportive. Coach
Hoey and Aldridge videotaped from
the bleachers while Coach Tucker
and Schuckert gave the runners
their splits from the sidelines.

The Generals worked hard all
weekend, continued making im-
provements, and gained motivation
for their next big event- The In-
door ODAC Championships two
weeks away at VMI. Many indi-
viduals are placed high among the
competitors and they, along with
their coaches, look forward to meet-
ing the challenge!

Washington and Lee’s Wrestling team dropped two matches at the
Johns Hopkins Quadrangular on Sunday aﬁemoon. The Generals’ record
is now 2-1 1 overall, 0-6 in the Centennial Conference. First, the Generals

lost to Hopkins, 44-6, then dropped a much closer decision, 29-24, to
Albright.174-pound Brian Avello, ’05, did record a 9-5 decision over Johns

Hopkins’ Mike Yuhaniak while 197-pound Mike Bennett, ’04, recorded a
4-3 win over Johns Hopkins’ John Polena. 133-pound Grant Krapf, ’O6,

141-pound John Polena, ’03, 165-pound Alex Poor, ’03, and Bennett all
won by forfeit against Albright. The Generals’ mext match is Wednes-
day when they host Southern Virginia.

W‘

)‘

streak ~

t

 

