K
 4,. , 
r   The stzirlerrt t.iria:‘e  it .  .
’_ Uﬁi W’,/"

..-....,. ....

  «Greek groups
.con inue to give

Panhell follows IFC lead with scholarships

,‘ BY CALEY ANDERSON

STAFF WRITER

The Panhellenic Council will award scholarships

to pay for four freshmen women’s greek fees this year.
[Panhellenic Council is the governing organization that
supervises Washington and Lee University’s sorori-

ties.

The scholarships, which will contrbute to the costs

of sorority membership for each student who receives
‘them, will be worth $150 for the recipient’s freshman year,
and $500 for each subsequent undergraduate year, a total

of$l650 in all.

Elizabeth Saxton, President of the Panhellenic Coun-

gcil, said that “the council is offering the scholarship in
an effort to allow several women who might not other-
wise be able to join a sorority to be a part of the sys-

93

tern.

M Accordingly, the primary criteria for awarding the
‘scholarship will be ﬁnancial need, although other factors
will include strength of interest in greek life, potential to
contribute to the greek system, and participation in extra-
curricular activites. Leaders hope these aid packages will
{ease the ﬁnancial burden on exceptional women who wish

to join sororities.

While Saxton said, “at most, four more women may
go through recruitment,” the possibility remains that
the scholarship will encourage many more Wash-

7ington & Lee women to participate in sorority re-
cruitment, thus stimulating activity in. the greek sys-

tem as a whole.

72 percent of upperclass female students at
‘Washington & Lee are members of a sorority, down
from last year’s mark of 74.4 percent, according to
W&L’s Office of Institutional Research. While many
sorority members have no problems paying their re-
spective organizational dues, some have trouble com-
''ing up with enough money. The Panhellenic Council
hopes that it will be able to place some new sorority
sisters who might _g_th_erwise Vhaveelecthed not to
pledge due to the cost of membershiph in a greek

organization.

Saxton said,the Interfratemity Council, which over-
sees Washington and Lee University’s fraternities, was
a helpful source of assistance to its sister organization
in drawing up the plans for the scholarship program,

(since they “already had their scholarship program in-
tact.” The Panhellenic scholarship was therefore in-
tended to be similar to the IFC scholarship in every pos-

sible way.

3‘.

ents.

Leaders of both organizations hope that their ﬁ-
/tnancial efforts will improve the greek system by allow-
ing worthy students to join fraternities or sororities
who would otherwise have trouble paying their greek

fees.

ll
l BY IMRAN NAEEMULIAH
OPINIONS ronor

Washington and Lee students
ltenjoyed a taste of India during the
Diwali festival held during dinner in
Evans Dining Hall on Thursday, Nov.
7. Organized by junior Abby Wolcott,
the festival featured Indian dancing,
hand decorating using an Indian dye
called henna, as well as Indian des-
serts. Said Wolcott, “It was a really
great event. I had a great time, as did
lnrthe rest of the organizers.” Wolcott
is chair of the Outreach Committee of
the Student Association for Interna-
tional Learning (SAIL).

i Students enjoyed the activities.
Freshman Elizabeth Little, who hails
iﬁom South Carolina, noted that this was
her ﬁrst real exposure to Indian culture.
She said, “I thought it was a really neat

lqevent and a good idea. I enjoyed the
dancing very much, and thought the
rice pudding was excellent.”

Food was certainly an attraction
for students. Said freshman Gabe
hapman, “I would easily say it was
the only night at D-Hall where I’m go-
ing to be able to eat lamb. It reminded
me of going to an Indian New Year ’s
ﬁinner at my friend’s house back
home. Ithought [the celebration] was
a great idea, and I wish we could do
more cultural things like that.”
Indeed, students seemed to
fiarticularly enjoy the desserts.
Freshman Ligia Abreu, who helped
organize the event, noted that the

         

  

The two scholarships are indeed essentially
identical in criteria for bestowment and amount, the
only real difference being the gender of the recipi-

helping out with the festivities.”

  ,%THER

.,:._,.

 

ING-T

.i'iigitl’lt arid lee tr

  

 

l

m...n

‘_§- 5-4-4.»-
is-«......;

T

J

   iiiiittilt”*iZl«ir"rll\Z r*-at  
F‘ 3:‘ II ll'.’i."l’I...,.’rTil

Aumorossrjns BRO0KS/ 7l9eRz'ng4umPh1'

Sonny, CHARLIE. Top. ABC’s ‘Good Morning America’
crewsworkedallweekendtosetup lights, cables, cameras
andwires liketheequipmer1tstrownAbove.'Iheol'I'icial

‘Good Morning America’ logo adorned Lexington,

W&L tas es India

desserts were a great success. She
also pointed out that they were for-
tunate to have religion professor
Tim Lubin on hand to chat with stu-
dents about Indian culture as well
as to enjoy the festivities.

Lubin was not the sole faculty pres-
ence, however. English professors
Suzanne Keen and Lesley Wheeler
wereboththerewitlitheirﬁarniliesirrtovv.
Wheeler noted with amusement, “I was
grateful [my two-year-old son] Cameron
didn’t smear henna on my face imtil af-
terthe painthad mostly dri ”

Keen agreed,-pointing out that she
attended because “I thought it would
be a fun change of pace, my husband
loves Indian food, and my son loves
any kind of festival. [He] has a magniﬁ-
cent henna tattoo that he has been
showing off at kindergarten. He also
enjoyed the music and dancing.”

Wolcott credits the success of
the event to the help of various other
students, as well as Director of Din-
ing Services Alex da Silva and Din-
ing Services Administrative Assis-
tant Faye Silvea. Wolcott pointed out
that one big positive was that stu-
dents of many nationalities assisted;
for example, henna painting was done
by sophomore Alex Schaerrer, who
is originally from Switzerland but now
lives in Florida. Said Wolcott, who is
an American, “ It gave the opportu-
nity for students to learn about an-
other culture, and it was especially
good that non-Indian students were

Washington and Lee and Virginia Military Institute. Rzgbt.
Crew members tum Lexington back alleys into New
York back sets by toting equipment Sunday afternoon.
Far right. ‘Good Morning America’ stars come to
Lexington‘ Bottom. ABC’s crews left no campus space
free of wires and cables.

Lex ransformed

BY KATIE Howm
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Quiet Lexington streets were made over this
weekend for today’s broadcast of ABC’s morning
news program, ‘Good Moming America. ’

Over 200 producers, editors, crew and cast ar-
rived in Lexington throughout the weekend to pre-
pare for this moming’s live broadcast. The show, fea-
turing Lexington as a representative Virginia city, fo-
cused on segments of the community including Lex-
ington Coffee Shop, Washington and Lee University
and Virginia Military Institute.

Anchors Diane Sawyer and Charlie Gibson ar-
rived via chartered plane to the Lexington community

see GMA, page 4

BY Mmnrw Mcbnmorr
EDITOR IN cnrrr

FORTHCOMING

Radio Free Asia director
discusses China, freedom

Dan Southerland, executive’ edi-
tor of Radio Free Asia, will address
“China behind the Headlines” at
8:00pm in Northen Auditorium, Nov 14.

Radio Free Asia is a govemment-
funded organization that broadcasts
Mandarin and Tibetan language news
into China.

Southerland, who is also vice
president for programming for Radio
Free Asia, was The Washingmn Post’s
bureau chief in Beijing from 1985 to
1990. While there, he covered China’s
economic reforms, political develop-
ment and human rights. In 1990, his
reports on the 1989 Tiananmen dem-
onstrations earned him a nomination
for a Pulitzer Prize. In 1995, he won
the Edward Weintal prize for distin-
guished diplomatic reporting for a
series on the Mao Zedong years in
China. He also wrote on business and
energy matters.

National authority lectures
on balancing life with work

Dr. SylviaAnn Hewlett will discuss
professional and personal life issues on
Tuesday, Nov. 19 at 7:30 p.m. in Leybum
Library’s Northen Auditorium at Wash-

ington and Lee University.

Hewlett’s talk, “Making Smart
Choices in Work and Life,” is sponsored
by the Williams School of Commerce,

‘Economics, and Politics and W&L’s
’W"rlliam Lyne Vifrlson Lecture Fund. Her
. talk is open to the public without charge.

Hewlett is the author of “Creat-
ing a Life: Professional Women and
the Quest for Children,” a book that
inspired the controversial Time maga-
zine cover article last spring, “Babies
vs. Career.” Hewlett’s book was

based on a sur-
vey of men and
women in high-
powered careers,
including invest-
ment banking,
law and
academia.
Among her
otherbooksis“’l‘he
War Against Parents,” which was co-

 

Hrswusrr

authored with academician Cornell West '

PAsT

Newspaper editor
covers journalism ethics

Walker Lundy, editor and execu-
tive vice president of The Philadel-
phia Inquirer, will deliver the keynote
address at Washington and Lee
University’s 34th Institute on the Eth-
ics in Journalism conference Friday,
Nov. 8.

Lundy, a nearly 40-year news-
paper veteran, will discuss ethics in

 . I... «.1.  1:2. . .

that the process of forming new memo-

lltitlt?i‘”‘S‘ii;if 3i’iit;ir:Tt:t l  ii’) Ohltrze rrl: lllrii, irritate  ~

 

  ,_ VoLuMECV,No.XlV
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 2002

Full speakers ’ roster ddressesmW&L

the news business in his speech,
“What Would Your Mother Do?”
His talk, which is free and open to
the public, is at 4:30 p.m. in room
327 of the Will-
iams School of
Commerce, Eco-
nomics, and Poli-
tics.

The ethics
institute is
sponsored by
W&L’s De-
partment of
Journalism and Mass Communi-
cations and the Knight Program
in Journalism Ethics.

LUNDY

Neuropsychologist

discusses your brain on drugs

“The Science of Partying” is the
topic of a Nov. 7 address at Washing-
ton and Lee University by Dr. Scott
Swartzwelder, a Duke University neu-
ropsychologist and professor of psy-
chiatry and behavior sciences.

The 7:30 p.m. talk, which is open
to the public, is in Northen Audito-
rium at Leybum Library.

Swartzwelder, a senior research
scientist for the U.S. Department of
Veteran Affairs, will discuss his re-
search on how alcohol and other
drugs interact with the brain and par-
ticularly with the brain’s mechanisms
of learning and memory. His research
shows the brain is still developing
until people reach their early 20s and

 

ries is disrupted by alcohol and other
drugs.

Swartzwelder is the author of nu-
merous academic journal articles and
three books: “The Straight Facts
About the Most Used and Abused
Drugs from Alcohol to Ecstasy”; “Just
Say Know: Talking with Kids About
Drugs and Alcohol”; and “Pumped:

A Straight Facts for Athletes about

Drugs, Supplements, and Training.”

Veteran investor
lectures on Wall St. volatility

Jim Awad, a veteran portfolio
manager andsenior investment officer,
will discuss what’s been happening
on Wall St. and what’s ahead in the
stock market as Washington and
LeeUniversity’s Williams Investment
Society guess speaker on Monday,
Nov. 4 at 7:30 p.m.

Awad’s address, “The Stock
Market: Where-Have We Come?
Where Are We Going?,” will be held
in Northen Auditorium in Leybum Li-
brary. The talk is open to the public
without charge.

Awad, chainnan of Awad Asset
Management, has been in
thesecurities industry for more than
30 years. He is a frequent speaker
inthe investment community and of-
ten appears on CNBC, CNN, Fox Sat-
ellite, CNN FN and Bloomberg Finan-
cial News.

Awad, a W&L graduate, holds an
MBA from Harvard University’s
Graduate School of Business.

 

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 2002

 

Si§r}kBiiiiiPﬁDlTORlAL

New website hard to use, displays

poor taste in color choice

The eye of the Phi scans all things great
and small, and has lately lit upon something
inescapable to anyone using an on-campus
computer: our website.

“Ugly” does not begin to describe it.
“Hard to read” is a better beginning.

The relentless blue-and-white style
makes searching for links oppressive.
White text on blue background, blue text
on white background, blue lines on blue
background, blue shadings on blue back-
ground—-blue and white melt together into
an impersonal, dark page totally different
in spirit from the previous webpage’s mel-
low tone palette.

How far extends this relentless chro-
matic-polarization? To bring Art Professor
George Bent’s photo into line with the domi-
nant colors scheme, his picture was shaded
blue. Bent now looks like Brainy Smurf.

The good professor appears besides a
full-color picture in the center and another
at the top left, exacerbating the webpage’s
cluttered look.

The busy new site stands in marked
contrast with the elegant post-and-lintel de-
sign of the previous site, where twin hori-
zontal and vertical columns of links made
the entire site easy to navigate.

We should be careful not to panegyrize
the past webpage, which certainly had its
faults. Most of these revolve around its
photos.

The “Foliage of W&L” series, for in-
stance, invited derision by its showcase of
leaves through which, occasionally, the odd
cornice or column peeked through. The
only thing worse than the photos were the
oversized attributions slathered on top of
them. Why anyone would want to be iden-
tified with most of the pictures is beyond
us.

That being said, however, the web page
was still pleasant and easy to read.

It was a website that was more classy
than corporate and more solid than showy.
However muchThere’s no use regretting this
latest instance of sic transit gloria mundi.

The new website may be more appeal-
ing to the countless new applicants we will
potentially attract as a result of being on Good
Morning America, yet it is a cruel insult to
the present user community. And where is
the Colonnade Cam?

As it stands, we now have a slicker and
colder portal that stares out at us every time
we turn on a campus computer. It reminds
us to enjoy our school’s culture while it’s still
with us. And it announces that a new
Swarthmore is slouching to Lexington to be
born.

 

".‘lr"«:?Iz:'.'I.:‘:I*' "ii 3 -' ’

Editors in chief Katie J. Howell
MatthewB.McI)ermott
Opinions Editor ImranNaeemuIlah
Arts & Life Editor Catherine C. Guy
Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin
Asst. Sports Editor Dave Crowell
Photo Editor Jeb Brooks
Photographers Tallie Jamison
BarrettDaws
Business Manager Paul Seifert
Asst. Business Manager Thomasworthy
Circulation Director HenryGrimball
Advertising Assistant McQueen Calvert

 
 

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Vrrginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editors in chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court defmi-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

Annual Subscription Rate: $35

THE. RING-not PH].

lnRA\n‘v.IE'~AIorEnI
OPINIONS EDrIoR

7
EMA1l.'NAEEvlUllAHl@WllJ.EDU

PINIONS e

I was going to write about
how Shepard Smith is a drunk (he
is), but a stroll through town gave
me a much better target: us. Yes,
Lex Vegas has painted itself up
like a cheap garden gnome for the
repellent hordes of northern lib-
erals who have occupied the
town. Once again an army of damn
Yankees has conquered the re-
gion, and we seem to be at their
beck and call.

The leaves are blown off the
front lawn. Fat roadies are set-
ting up speakers and lighting
around Lee chapel, their utility
belts just barely holding up their
sagging jeans, as they crack jokes
and generate garbage on our pris-
tine lawn. It looks like the Colon-
nade has had its paint touched up
recently, which will no doubt be
dubbed “quaint” by the effepe me-
dia elites.

Half of the J -School seems to
be involved in the production,
which I suppose makes
some sense, as W&L
and VMI have no
doubt sold their labor
forces (student “vol-
unteers”) to the minions of
Mordor, ABC. Cadets in camou-
flage pants are hauling sound
equipment back and forth for dis-
gusting media people who se-
cretly chuckle at ordering around
members of a military tradition
they have no respect for.

They’ve got the whole bat-
tery of 105 millimeter howitzers
out on the parade field, and le-
gions of cadets are practicing the
manual of arms. I hear there’s go-
ing to be a two block parade,
too. That seems pretty fake to
me. A cadet was actually touch-
ing up the painting of the VMI
ring on the cannon ball by J ack-
son Arch with a tiny brush, while
ABC people trailing clouds of
cigarette smoke positioned cam-
eras. ‘

It’s not like Lexington is this
way all the time, is it? Not that I
remember. Hell, if they wanted to
beautify the place, they’d knock

ABC will tras W, Le

BEMUSED BYSTANDER
WILLIAM Fox ‘05

that doesn’t look
held together by
the remains of a
fifteen year old
coat of paint.
Mass hysteria
reigns in the town,
as the streets are
barricaded with
wiring and equip-
ment, and the side-
walks covered with
tape marking where
the talking heads
are to stand on
Monday.

down that grim fortress that is the
VMI barracks, and replace is with
modular apartments or something.

try dynamiting the Wilson Field
complex and building something

The townies smile and nod, se-
cretly cursing to themselves, re-
senting the presence of so many
outsiders. They hate us, but they
must really hate the outsiders who
put Hillary Clinton in office.

The worst part is we all know
that the students they interview will

()7 11/WW/.]Ell//5'li’EE}\:.(I)li1

BIASED. Diane Sawyer and her crew will no doubt portray Was they wish to see it

be a hand picked crowd that rep-
resents diversity and northern lib-
eralism as well. In short, it will be
a group totally unrepresentative
of this school. For better or
worse, we’re neither liberal nor di-
verse, but we’ll sure as hell do our
best to appear like every other
small liberal arts college, because
that’s what the people who write
the college rankings (northern lib-
erals, who might
actually watch

If you
want to really
improve the
appearance of
our campus,

like rust being

YEs,LrxVEcAsIIAsI>An\IrEonsEI.I=uR ABC) expect
IIKEACHEAPGARDENGNOIVIEFORIHE This is all just
REI>EIrENrIIoRDEsoENoRIIIERN a"°th°’ Step 1“
the development

LIEERAIsIIIIo HAVE occLI>IEoIIIEro\tN. of w&L mm that
 WI'CtChCd hlVC'Of

‘ s c u m and v 11-

YANIEES IIAs COINQUEREDIHE REGION, lain}, that is Wi1_

AM) IIE sEEMIo EEAIIIIEIREErI<AND liams College-

What is the

Cm‘ real PR value of all

this anyhow? Are
more tourists going to come to Lex-
ington? Are more applications from
people who don’t match the stan-
dard W&L proﬁle going to come in?
Is the president’s capital campaign
going to ﬂourish. in the wake of a
very fake and staged presentation
of W&L on national television? I
don’t know, but I doubt it.

MLK day should be honored

Recently I encountered a situation that greatly bothered
me while collecting signatures for a petition to have an adjusted
schedule forMartinI..utherKing Day, anetfort initiatedby PRIDE.
Beingthena'1‘vepersonthatIarn,Iassumed
that I would have no problems in getting sup-
port from fellow students, but that is not the
case. In particular, these two students, the only
two I’ve met who are unsupportive of this effort, were very
ooncemed that we would recognize just Martin Luther King.
They asked me why is it that we don’t recognize other people
and that it was not appropriate to have
such an event on campus. On this note,
they wondered why is it we don’t rec-
ognize someone like Lyndon Johnson. I
found myself dumbfounded by the ques-
tionofthereisaneedtorecognizeMLK
day because I thought the answer was
blatantly obvious. But apparently not.

Here is my argument for why it is
that we should recognize the Martin

TRAN or Tnoucnr
_ TRAN KIM ‘O5

is everywhere, and it is at the root of many of our social issues,
ﬁom the problems of racial cleansings to the problem of diver-
sity on our very own campus. Martin Luther King led a very
hard and tough battle to end the prejudice
against African Americans, but he leaves a
legacy for us to continue struggling to end

‘ prejudice againstotherindividuals. Inhis time,
it was black and white, but now it is a problem that encompasses
other groups as well. Two groups that come to mind are the poor
and those people of Muslim backgrounds, but there is a plethora
of prejudices against people based
on various foundations.

Martin Luther King Day re-
minds us to be aware of the preju-
dices and racial divides that exist in
our society and to be proactive in
ending these unfair judgments. It is
a day in which we unite because of
the mere fact that we are human be-
ings, not because we have the same

LutherKing holiday. Yes, these individu— skincolor or wear thesameshirt ﬁom
als have a very valid argument when the Gap or for any other trivial rea-
they said that there are many individu— son. We all came from the same place
als who have done many great things and we are made of the same things.
anditwouldbefantaslic if we c0u1drec- This ishow we arecommon and this
ognize them all, but that is of course im— commonality is what should tie us
practical. But most importanﬂy, Martin together rather.

Luther King day means more than sirn— Martin Luther King strived to

ply recognizing a single individual. It is
alsoadayinwhichwerecognizeavery
painful era in our nation’s history and
the hard and long battle we Americans
fought resolve the issues of this era. It is
anever-ending battle, andwe sometimes
ﬁnd ourselves soldiers in our every day
lives.

The battle here is of course the war against prejudice. Re-
gardless of how far we have come in destroying many of the
racial divides that separated black and white, prejudice is still a
living and thriving issue that needs a lot of attentions. Prejudice

 

NEVER FORGOTTEN. The memory of this great
American leader must be honored lest he be
forgotten amidst history’s dust.

 

deliver this message while he was
alive, and it is this legacy that he tried
to leave behind. So when we think
of Martin Luther King Day, we
should not see it as a day to recog-
nize one man, but look at it as a day
to represent the human race. It just
is the case that Martin Luther King believed in this idea and
that time period needed someone like him to promote unity. He
is symbolic of our snuggle today. Recognizing him does not
mean that he has more value than any other human being.
Recognizing him means that we value all human beings.

l)ll(‘ilD(l()Lil(IE,SY()l-'ll”li"‘l«_i"'.l‘/tll.iEDli‘

  
   

PAGE 2

Thanksgiving looms»
far away in distance

Long-awaited holiday cannot come soon
enough, relieves unbearable stress

School breaks always seem to come at the ab}
solute perfect times. About a week before any va-
cation, my head starts spinning. Everyone annoys
me more than usual. I probably don’t have any more
work than I normally do, but it seems like every last,
nuance of homework is comparable to completing a
dissertation on quantum physics. (“I have to read
the first act of Twelfth Night by next week. This is
ridiculous. I’m going to have to pull like four all-

nighters.”) .1
It was apart NORTHERN EXPOSURE
ticularly treach-
erous day of KRIS PoLLINA ‘03
work at the GHQ

today (Sweet Christ, so you have to wait fifteen,‘
extra minutes for a pork BBQ sandwich. Everyone
knows you come to the GHQ for the ambiance and
charismatic workers, not fast food.)

Which made me come home to my laptop (the;
tab key broke, which, of course, threw me into a
crazed tizzy cursing both humanity and technol-
ogy. Then that door—opening-sound effect that en-
acts once someone signs onto a buddy list
“jammed” somehow so the sound just keeps going’
on and on and on. I’m not even signed online and
all I can hear is a repeating door opening.) And I
realize that Thanksgiving break will be the best
thing that ever happened to me. So far. I mighty
change my mind if I win the Virginia lottery (now at
$93 million), or 90210 comes back on the air. So at
this time, I’d like to pay homage to what is un-
doubtedly the best week of the year.

Now that I’ve moderately waxed self—deprecat-’
mg, I can think more clearly about the virtues of
Thanksgiving break. The possibilities are so end-
less, I have to begin speculating about them two
weeks in advance. First and foremost, there’s al--,
ways the promise of reuniting with the proverbial
Friends From Home, real or imaginary. I remember
freshman year coming home, and- this was not one
of my finer moments- I became That High School
Alum and went to a Young Alumni Reception. 19
was amusing at best, pathetic at worst. One dude
who goes to Harvard said, in response to my imme-
diately regretted inquiry as to how he was doing,
“I’m doing really well! Look at me, saying ‘well,’,
using good grammar. It’s an Ivy League thing, I
think.” .   .  .

I can’t extolthe virtues of Thanksgiving Break
enough. It gives.me a whole week to reﬂect on the
things I’m thankful for: picture frames, fabric soft-V
ener, carbonated water, to name a few. But most
importantly, I’m thankful for the fact that it’s still
autumn, and we’ve yet to enter the dark abysm of
time otherwise known as Winter Term. )

Freshmen are still known by where they’re from-
“Hi, I’ m Joe From Atlanta”— and not by their frater-
nity, as if eighteen years of living somewhere has

been sup-

I can’t extol the virtues of Thanksgiving P13 “ t e d
. by one

Break enough. It gives me a whole week week of
to reﬂect on the things I’m thankful for: P16dg'¢ShiP-
picture frames, fabric softener, carbonated 
water, to name a few But most morning
importantly, I’m thankful for the fact that and mu
, , . , feel my
Its still autumn, and we ve yet to enter the t 0 6 S ,
dark abysm of time otherwise known as T h ere ’ S
- I1 0

Winter Term. trouble _

S 0 m G

quandary of deciding what to wear when you g
out: “It’s negative 40 degrees outside, but 180 in a
fraternity basement... halter top it is !” And then of
course, there’s the obvious: inherent paleness. I
liken pastification to how people look better in dark
clothes. Having color is just more slimming and ﬂat-
tering.

Though I usually subscribe to the hackneyed
yet salubrious and optimistic mentality that indeed
Life Is Good, a week away from Lexington and sperft
in the peacefully normal quarters of New York gar-
ners a lovely degree of anticipation that is only
rivaled by the moment of hope and prayer before I
check the lottery numbers every day. 3

Of course, however, my trip back to school at
the end of break comes at the perfect time too, when
I’ve reached my legal limit of home—cooked meals
and what-ar‘e—you—doing—after-graduation queries.
The equilibrium between the love of home and th%
love of school is one of the greatest balances na-

UJIC has CV61‘ COI1COCtCd.

 

osteccentric professonwhy?  

 

    

TAI.uE]A\IIsoN The namP}:i

“Sessions, because he “Porter, because he wears a “Vinson, have you SEEN his “Schwab, because of his “Eric Wilson, because he ’
sticks his tongue out a lot.” parka all the time.” Elvis lamp?!” spandex.” wears orange and lime-green.”
-BRITT RUEGGER ‘O6 -JENNY Scorr ‘O6 CHRISTINA ZANor'rI ‘O6 -PROF. RoNAu)RmE -LAUREN PARTRIDGE ‘O5

 

   
 
    
    
   
   
   

 

V The {law Washmgton Past E.]ectrm1ic Eciitien is the perfect way in get The P+::~st when'you.1ive it-uts:i&e the
_ - heme delivery area..,. ‘when; *yo::s=u.’re at schom... and when yr:-u still" want ta eniesr the Isak, feel and wntext
' of The Pxzast‘-s print eclitican.

 

Get. it delivered ‘diytallgr’ ta ymir. computer or eiaytoga first thing -ever-9* mornitlg, seven days 3 week, at home, ”‘
damn, office, anywhere. 

 

Looks just like The ?o-st because it is, The Past. «

 

ifs an exact zhgltal nepiica nf the day’%. print ediﬁawn.
1; V Includes articles, photos, c.eiuinni.sts;, comics, gra’p5I1i::s and ads.

Searchahle and interactive.

 

 ‘ See now right the marning Feels with The Wash-Engmn Pest. dé-liverwed ‘5fﬂlIfl" way, eve-ry day. A

     mm out more about we wasnmmn Past ectranic Etlilin   —
   inclmﬁng law: you can set it FREE  me weens—at

IIttn.Jlee..  ash ost. 

         
  

=03-25¢ WEL

 
 

 

THE R.iNG—TlJfM l’

RTS

Orchestra concert sells out

,1 l‘R()l\l .\TAl‘l’ RITPORIS

PAGE 4

On Saturday, Washington and Lee University’s own
"University-Shenandoah Symphony Orchestra performed
-“to a sold—out house. The everiing’s repertoire consisted of
{Archipelago by George Antheil, Sinfonia Concertante, K.
- 364 by Mozart and Rachmaninoff ’s Symphonic Dances.

The group is led by Associate Professor of Music
3Barry Kolman and consists of a wide variety of
-‘participants. Dr. Kolman’s Music 114 class, which is
'-made up of undergraduate and law students, practices
#2 two nights each week in DuPont. String specialist Mark
‘Taylor helps each week, and is also active as the concert

master during performances. These students are joined
vby Professional Musicians and other performers with a
flove for music, all of whom are from the area.

This Saturday’s performance was the first of the
"2002—2003 season, and the first ever ticketed show.
'Music staff was concerned that charging both the
"Washington and Lee and Lexington communities would
._ not be well-accepted, since audiences have enjoyed the
‘USSO performances for free in the past. However, the

response was extremely positive, as the entire Keller
I:Theatre of Lenfest was sold out.

The first piece George Antheil’s Archipelago, a
;modern, tropical piece. Antheil, an American composer,
«is known as the bad boy of music because of his

unconditional approach to orchestral music. He worked
for many years as a composer in Hollywood. The piece
was brief and performed energetically.

New Yorkers descend on Lex

city in each of the U.S. states.

“In the country’s reaction to the
Sept. 11 (terrorist) attacks we have
seen how America is constantly
evolving - as the founding fathers
hoped it would,” ABC News Presi-
dent David Westin said.

The second piece in the performance was Mozart’s
S infonia Concertante. This piece was performed
beautifully with ﬂawless rhythmic patterns and intonation.
The USSO was joined by talented soloists Marc Ramirez
and Olivia Hajioff, who are, together, known as marcolivia.
Ramirez played the violin, while Ms. Hajiotf performed on
the viola. They performed beautifully together, and were
well-received by the audience. The duo has performed
throughout the nation and the world.

After a 15 minute intermission, the Orchestra
performed Rachmaninoff ’s Symphonic Dances. This
piece was by far the most difﬁcult, as well as the longest.
The Dances consisted of three movements, and lasted
for nearly an hour. The piece was full of contrasts and
complicated segments, and appeared to be extremely
challenging for the performers. The dramatic and
powerful ending left the audience spell—bound, and
caused them to give the performers a standing ovation.

Members of the Orchestra will be performing next
in a holiday music concert on Tuesday, December 3 at
7:00 pm. The Festival Orchestra will be joined by the
University Chorus, Jazz Ensemble, and Wind Ensemble
and will be performing a series of Holiday favorites.
This concert will also require tickets. The next USSO
performance will occur on Saturday, February 1, 2003.
In this, Peter Landgren of the Baltimore Philharmonic
will join his daughter, sophomore violinist Celia
Landgren for a Father Daughter show.

Community officials said the
show’s presence in Lexington should
increasetourismoverthenextfew weeks.

Hundreds of Lexington residents
and students from both universities
in town attended the production, one
part of a 50-part series focusing on a

GMA, from page 1

Sunday afternoon to prepare for their
Virginia show.
Gibson began his career atABC in
the late 60’s as news director at affiliate
, station WLVA—TV in Lynchburg.

 

tAiHEE1i\IEC.(iLi'
ARTS &LlFEEDl’IOR

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 2002

Frat Cups make the world go ‘round

(Disclaimer: Once again, I am
writing on some aspect of W&L life
that is student appropriate, while
trying to poke a little fun at Greek
Central. Ifanyone is

Unfortunately, Josh Patten, one of the
true masters of the game, was
unavailable for comment, but if you
asked him, he would say that, given

the choice, he would

offended or ABSOLUTE FRAT LORD always choose the
disturbed by this ‘ frat cup, hands
article (though I’m TIM» SMITH  down.

not sure why you

would be), I apologize and implore you
to take this article for what it is — one
West Virginian’s hilarious opinion.)

Pop Quiz: What is small, plastic,
and necessary for life at W&L to
exist? No, it’s not daddy’s credit card.
I’m talking about something so crucial
that, if it were to disappear, our school
would fall into mass hysteria and
hellish chaos. Without this beloved
thing, W&L would not be what we
know and love. What is this thing
that completes our college experience?
Of course, it is the Frat Cup.

As soon as we make our first trip
to Lex Vegas, the frat cup becomes
an inseparable part of our lives.
Indeed, our very livelihoods often
seem dependent on this clear, 16 oz.
plastic container. Consider these
examples:

RECREATION — So many of our
post-class festivities revolve around
the frat cup. The most obvious, of
course, is that classic game that
captures the best of every student’s
competitive nature: Beer Pong. Frat
Cups make Beirut what it is. Certainly,
there are a lot of plastic cups in the
world, and some could be used for
this game, but Beer Pong is not quite
the same without the frat cup.

5§Looking for someone who enjoys kids;
ifto watch two children Tues. & Thurs}
from 10-12. Downtown home,
convenient walk from campus.
Call Kate & David C? 462-3915.

at:  

Write for the Arts and
Life!

email guyc@wlu.edu

 

Spring Break 2003 with STS
Americas #1 Student Tour
Operator
Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free
Information/Reservations
1-800-648-4849 or
www.ststravel.com

And beer pong is
just the tip of the iceberg. Frat cups
are also crucial in other thirst-
quenching games — ﬂip cup, for
example, is another game in which the
clear cup is used
to its utmost
potential. Even
for simple
chugging, the
frat cup has no
equal. Clearly,

POP QUIZ: WHAT Is SMALL,
PLASTIC, AND NECESSARY FOR
LIFE AT W&L TO EXIST?
NO, ITS NOT DADDY’s CREDIT

for Becky Johns and Matt Grieco if
they didn’t have their frat cups to
drink from. To Jess Lake and Nathan
Stovall, the music in Vosbein’s jazz
history class would be less exciting
without their frat cup ice to munch
on. And how many fraternity brothers
in this school use frat cups with their
meals? It’s so simple. You don’t have
to wash it, and it just feels right.
Obviously, when we wake up
each morning and plan our day, we
don’t consciously think to ourselves:
‘‘I’m going to
drink from a frat
cup today.” That
would be silly.
But somehow,
something as
s e e m i n g 1 y

our lives outside CARD. I’M TALKING ABOUT inconsequential
of class would be SOMETHING so CRUCIAL THAT, as 3 Ceftain type
drab and IF IT WERE TO DISAPPEAR, °fp1as“° °_“p can
uninteresting makeanoticeable

without the

OUR SCHOOL WOULD FALL

impact on our

contributions of INTO MASS HYSTERIA AND C 0 1 1 6 g c

the frat cup_ HELLISH CHAOS. experience. And
D AY- T 0 - that is my point:

DAY LIFE _ The Washington and

next time you’re sitting in class
ﬁghting off the urge to sleep, or the
next time you’re strolling down the
Colonnade, stop for a moment and try
to count the number of frat cups you
can see. The number may surprise
you.

While we may never realize it, frat
cups have become a necessity in our
daily lives. Imagine how different
things would be without the frat cup.
Ethics class would seem even longer

Lee University is a unique place. We
always pride ourselves in the
distinctions that separate us from the
other schools in the nations, for it is
these distinctions that make the
experience in Lexington special. But
sometimes, there are things other than
our Honor System and our heritage
that make life at W&L different.
Sometimes, it is the little things, like
clear plastic cups, that make our
college lives more fulﬁlling.

Notices from the Executive Committee

October 8, 2002

The Executive Committee placed a student on social probation for

one month and conduct probation until the end of winter term for
harrassing a witness who was involved in an honor investigation.
The student disclosed the witness’s involvement in the honor
investigation.
October30, 2002

The Executive Committee placed three students on social probation until
the beginning of February Break2003, and conduct probation until the end of
the acaderriic year for harassing a witness who was involved in an honor

‘violation investigation. The students left intirriidating and obscene phone

messages on the witness’ voicemail intending to criticize the witness’
involvement in the honor investigation. '
Enforcement Procdure
Conﬁdentiality and Harassment, located on page 3 of the White Book

The Executive Committee may take disciplinary steps (including conduct
probation, socialprobation, or suspension) against any student who harasse_s
or attempts to inﬂuence a person with respect to that person’s participation in
any investigation or hearing.

Summary of Executive Committee HonorActivity for the 2002-2003 Academic Year

Investigations: 0

Virithdrawals in face of a Closed Hearing: 1

Closed Hearings: 4

Guilty Verdicts in Closed Hearings: 3

Not Guilty Verdicts in Closed Hearings: 1

Student Body Hearings: 0

I.§x‘IN(;‘I‘_g,)§r
2.01113 131*-A

a__1"?¥.

.-1“/\‘.’I/(lg ("-19 I»:/3 t.r.r:-or

LINGER AT A  TABLE

COFFEE - ESPRESSO ' CAPPUCCINO ' PASTRIES 9 BAGELS
DWKST “'ASHlNG'lY)NSTI'.EE'l‘ - LEXINGTON 0 464-6585

Earn $1,000-$2,000 this semester with a proven CampusFundraiser
3 hour fundraisin g event. Our programs make fundraising easy
with no risks. Fundraising dates are filling quickly, so get with
the program! It works. Contact CampusFundraiser at (888) 923-
3238, or visit www.carnpusfundraiser.com

# 1 Spring Break Vacations!

Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas,
' Mazatlan, Florida, SPadre. 110% Best Prices!

Book Now & get Free Parties & Meals!
Group Discounts. Now hiring Campus Reps! i
1-800-234-7007 i

endlesssummertours.com

 

  

YMONDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 2902

‘.
,.

 Generals break 20

‘<~ mesm-

i=W&L beats Emory & Henry
for 1st time since 1982,
evens ODAC record at 3-3

K BY BARRETT Dmvs

-. SPORTS \‘v’RlTER

I‘? In their last home game of the

-season, the Washington and Lee foot-

éball team went out on the highest of

‘notes with a 22-9 victory over Emory
& Henry College. This victory marked

(the end of a 19-game dry spell for the

Generals against the Wasps.

'~ W&L took the ﬁeld with an un-

rseen level of intensity and kept it

ithroughout the game.

I: “The attitude we took to the ﬁeld

.'can be attributed to this game being
the seniors’ ﬁnal home game,” junior

r-quarterback Peter Dean said. “We all

‘really tried to step it up out there for

‘those guys.”

1‘ Barely three minutes into the ﬁrst

Iquarter, the Generals took the lead

fthanks to the swift feet of senior run-

‘éning back Chris Sullivan, who scored

ion a 7—yard touchdown run.

.?:- The Wasps responded later in
the first quarter when sophomore

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

3' Kevin Strosnider had a goal and
"an assist as Randolph—Macon
avenged a regular-season loss to
Washington and Lee with a 2-0 win in
the semiﬁnals of the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference men’s soccer
tolunament at the Liberty Hall Fields

“on Saturday.

’ Randolph-Macon’s dreams were
idashed by Roanoke in the ODAC

:Championship, however, as the Ma-
"roons pulled out a 6-1 win in Salem on
Sunday.

I , The Yellow Jackets, advanced to

.:the ﬁnals after posting a 3.-5--._1 confer-

ence record and earning the seventh

iseed in the ODAC Tournament.
j"Randolph-Macon has 19 freshmen and
just four upperclassmen on its roster.
“We’ve been so young that
we’ve kind of made young mistakes,”
iSt.rosnider said. “The ODAC Touma-

'ment has been the best games of our

:'season. When it came to it, we pulled

‘together as a team and we did what
we were supposed to do.”

__ The sixth—seeded Generals ofﬁ-
cially advanced to the semiﬁnals four
days after losing to Virginia Wesleyan
in the quarterﬁnals on Nov. 2. Forward
Josh Hill, who scored a goal and an
assist in the 4-0 tournament victory,
had received his ﬁfth yellow card of
the year against Randolph—Macon to

lose the regular season — a game

hat the Marlins lost, 2-1 —— and
hould have sat out against W&L
der NCAA rules.
, ODAC Commissioner Brad
§Bankston ruled on Wednesday that
s3;Wesleyan would forfeit the match,

    
 

lllS”PiREl'.l Bl’ HT RUSS, Slllls



place kicker David Burks riﬂed a 21-
yard field goal to make the game 7-3,
still in favor of the Generals.

The ﬁerce offense of W&L made
another strong charge in the second
quarter. Once again, W&L put the ball
in the hands of Sullivan, whose 1-yard
run into the end zone put the Gener-
als ahead 14-3.

The E&H offense came back to
score another touchdown in the sec-
ond quarter as well. Junior running
back Dan Hammonds scored on a 2-
yard run that cut the W&L lead to
14-9. The Wasps then tried to make a
two-point conversion but failed, and
at halftime, the Generals had a 14-9
lead.

After the half, the game belonged
to Washington and Lee. Both the of-
fense and the defense rose to the chal-
lenge. The Generals’ defense held the
Wasps scoreless throughout the sec-
ond half, and the offense scored yet
another touchdown.

The third quarter was score-
less for both teams, but in the fourth
quarter, Sullivan dominated once
again. With about seven minutes
left to play in the game, Sullivan
scored both the third touchdown

of the day for the Generals as well
as for himself, as his run of 19 yards
put W&L ahead 20-9. The follow-
ing two-point conversion nailed the

5W&L falls to Randolph-Macon, 2-O

1fMen’s soccer returns to ODAC Tournament, but can’t top red-hot Ye

B.\RRJ:Tr l).\\V 5/ The Rzng/Irm Pill

SEASON-ENDING Loss. Senior Paul Negron and the Generals fell 2-0 to Randolph-
Macon in the ODAC Tournament semiﬁnals Saturday at the Liberty Hall Fields.

which ofﬁcially went down as a 1-0
W&L win, but the Generals had al-
ready missed three days of practice.
Senior captain Brad Murphy
thought that the confusion in the
middle of the week may have hurt
W&L, but he said it didn’t cost them
the game against Randolph—Macon.
“We didn’t find out until 4
o’clock on Wednesday, so we didn’t
even start practicing until Wednes-
day night,” he said. “But I think it

made us more focused when we knew
we had a second opportunity, and the
ODAC Championship was just one
game away.”

W&L looked focused in the ﬁrst
half, but couldn’t put one past
Randolph—Macon freshman goalie
Nick Warner, who made 10 saves for
the match.

The Yellow Jackets didn’t have
too many good scoring chances until
the closing seconds, when Strosnider

onnnwn  

Seats title, has 53 cubic
feet but cargo space. and

—year skid against

coffin shut on the Wasps as W&L
held a 22-9 lead.

Dean said that he was “really
proud of the way we played today.

/low Jackets in conference semiﬁnals

set up freshman David Tait for the
game-winning tally with 0:03 left on
the clock.

“They scored with three seconds
to go, but we had a lot of opportuni-
ties in the first half,” Murphy said.
“At halftime we were down 1-0, but
Coach (Rolf Piranian) told us we could
definitely do it because we controlled
the whole ﬁrst half. I wasn’t worried
at all to be down 1-0.”

The Generals dominated the
opening minutes of the second half,
but again Warner and the Yellow Jack-
ets’ defense held when it counted.

Strosnider sealed the game with
34:23 remaining as he connected on a

‘nice centering feed from Brian Fowler

for a 2-0 advantage.

W&L ﬁnishes the year with an 8-
9-2 overall mark. After dropping a 1-0
loss to ODAC champion Roanoke on
Sept. 28, the Generals were 1-5-1 and
0-3 in the conference.

“After that slow start, we really
put a lot together,” said Murphy, who
led W&L with eight goals and ﬁve as-
sists for 21 points. “The younger guys
really started playing to their poten-
tial, and we had a lot more conﬁdence
once we got a few conference wins.”

The Generals graduate six se-
niors, but Murphy is confident that
W&L will move back up the ODAC
ladder over the next couple of years.

“These guys, especially the
freshman class, have so much poten-
tial,” he said. “Next year and the year
after, these guys are going to be re-
ally strong. There are really good
young players on this team, and once
they get to be juniors and seniors,
they’re really going to do a lot in the
ODAC.” ‘

BACKFIELD
CONTRIBUTION.
Sophomore
fullback Chris
Caramore rushes
for some of his 42
yards in W&L’s 22-
9 win over Emory
& Henry at Wﬂson
Field on Saturday.
Caramore also
caught a team—high
ﬁve passes for 46
yards to
complement senior
tailback Chris
Sullivan’s 170 yards
and three
touchdowns.
(Photo by Barrett
Daws/T/re Ring-
tum P/)1)

Everything seemed to click and we re-
ally played like a solid football team.”

Sullivan led the Generals’ offense
by rushing 44 times for 170 yards and

l‘ROr\l b"l".ll"l’ REPORTS

WESTMINSTER, Md. — The
Washington and Lee wrestling team
ﬁnished its fall season by winning
one of its five matches at the
McDaniel Invitational on Saturday.

Juniors Michael Bennett and
Joe Mueller each won four of their
ﬁve matches on the afternoon to lead
the Generals.

W&L defeated Gallaudet 42-6
in a dual match that featured only
one actual contest. At the 165-
pound class, senior Alex Poor
pinned Gal1audet’s Jeremy Randolph
at 3:55; the remainder of the matches
were forfeits.

McDaniel then handed the Gen-
erals a 48-9 loss, with Mueller and
Bennett recording the only victories
for W&L. The 184-pound Mueller

PAGE 5

Wasps

three touchdowns. Because of his
performance against Emory & Henry,
he now needs only 68 yards next week
against Greensboro College to break
Marc Watson’s school career rush-
ing record of 3,1 12 yards.

Sophomore fullback Chris
Caramore also had a solid game
against the Wasps, rushing for 42
yards on nine carries and catching ﬁve
passes for 46 yards.

“I really wanted to break the
100-yard mark today, but I am not
upset because all that matters at the
end of the season is the win-loss
record, and we won today,” Caramore
said.

Another positive note for the
Generals was the appearance of Dean
on the field. On his return to the
lineup, Dean completed 11-of-28
passes for 109 yards and two inter-
ceptions. “It took me a while to get
readjusted, but once I found my
groove, I was more than comfortable,”
he said.

Sophomore linebacker Lloyd
Wilson led the W&L defense with
nine tackles, while senior defensive
end Brett Burns recorded six tackles
and two sacks.

Wrestlers compete a
McDaniel Invitational

Generals drop 4 of 5 matches at ear/y-season meet

beat the Green Terror’s Steve
Jennings 9-5, while Bennett pinned
Eric Bartczak in 5:27 at the heavy-
weight class.

The Generals dropped a 36-22
decision to Albright and a 43-7 match
to the Newport News Apprentice
School, although Mueller and
Bennett each picked up a pair of vic-
tories.

North Carolina-Pembroke then
handed W&L a 36-9 defeat, includ-
ing the only losses on the afternoon
for Mueller and Bennett.

Senior John Polena defeated
Pe1nbroke’s Michael Chandler 5-0 at
the 141—pound class, and senior Ja-
son Smee beat Scott Metcalf by
pinfall in 1:05.

The Generals begin their winter
season with the W&L Quadrangu—
lar on Jan. 4.

SCOREBOARD

To Be Announced

Volleyball

W&L in NCAA Division lll Tournament
Women’s Soccer

W&L in NCAA Division lll Tournament

Wednesday, Nov. 13
Women’s Swimming
Hollins at W&L, 7 p.m. ‘

\

W&L SPORTS SCHEDULE: NOVEMBER 11-17

Saturday, Nov. 16

Cross Country

W&L at NCAA South/Southeast
Regional (at Mary Washington)

Riding

W&L at James Madison/Bridgewater
invitational

Football

W&L at Greensboro, 1 p.m.

  
 

  
  

This bracelet was a gist Ambec Apodaca

received from the earning whom she halprd team with
drug and alcohoi problems. she was wearing it
Mean an umsmgs drunk driwir ‘nook her Ilsa.

Friends Don‘: Lat 1’-‘reams arm Drunk.

is available with 180 lap
and a 6-speed manual
shift. Even evolution
carft fully exptain it.
@312 l{}=liZvT...%’s. ?tt€Il0Ft:  L155 ii... iii}.  {RE
[ft]:/'li’»"r.FlT.i*.i.ilE-E‘it’l.<.tl ' Et’W;l."3Wtl%lt2t.l.l§BS
ii  til‘-I} %5ll§tttlt‘a'FE£. EtE.‘i..l.t%lE8 1'61)‘.

E. Left ‘*5. w  .,-iréi’; l)FEE£l‘«l3l..i‘t’ 
 . .3li3TLlrlL Eileﬁlﬁﬁ‘ Fﬁiii W31‘ ‘W11’

    

 
      

Starting smart S Samaritans.” -

we-.«.s¢ wz.-owco:-.«

 

 

 

 

PAGE 6

 

Spogﬁg

 

Immtw,  
SPORISED R _

 mwmN
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 2002;?‘


I?‘

e"-.:-5.-'.‘-‘3-"'3-\. “3.:

Volleyball, women’s soccer teams bring home conference titles

I jEBRKs/ e l'rzg—luPln'

TEAM EFFORT. Taylor Gibson (attacking), Emily Wolﬁrig, Susan Gaillard, Stacey
Kirnmel,]ennifer Lux and Michelle Chastain are just some of the reasons why
the Generals are headed back to the NCAA Division III Tournament.

Generals breeze by trio of
opponents in conference,
make return trip to NCAA
Division III Tournament

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

HARRISONBURG —— Wash-
ington and Lee extended its domi-
nance in the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference into the postseason on
Friday and Saturday, sweeping all
three of their opponents in the con-
ference tournament at Eastern Men-
nonite.

The Generals ran the table in
the regular season, going 10-0 in the
ODAC. They beat No. 8 Lynchburg,
fourth-seeded Randolph-Macon
and No. 3 Bridgewater in the tour-
nament to win their second straight
conference title.

Freshman Christine Gladysz to-
taled 124 assists and 33 digs over
the three matches and was named
tournament MVP. She said that the
Generals played some of their best
volleyball of the year in the ODAC
Tournament.

“We played really well, and
we’ve improved immensely,”
Gladysz said.

Gladysz and middle blockers
Susan Gaillard and Taylor Gibson
have all contributed to the team as
freshmen, and the Generals have just
one upperclassman, senior captain
Stacey Kirnmel.

W&L struggled slightly earlier
in the year when they were adapt-
ing to different personnel.

“Getting used to everyone play-
ing with different people takes a
while,” Gladysz said. “In the middle
of the season, we changed our
‘lineup, and it was a little bit of a

Men’s swimmers open year, women fall to Yellow Jackets 

rough time for us. But as a team, I
think we are finally coming to-
gether.”

W&L beat the Hornets 30-13, -

30—17, 30-14 in the quarterﬁnals on
Friday. Sophomore outside hitter
Emily Wolfmg, who joined Gladysz
on the All-Tournament team, re-
corded 14 kills to lead the Generals.

Sophomore outside hitter
Michelle Chastain ﬁnished with 13
kills, and Gibson contributed 12 kills.

Gaillard tallied 13 kills to lead
W&L to a 30-28, 30-28, 30-21 win
over Randolph-Macon in the semi-
ﬁnals on Saturday morning. Gibson
contributed 11 kills, while Chastain
notched 10 kills and three blocks.

The Generals then swept
Bridgewater 30-23, 36-34, 31-29 to
win their fifth ODAC title in six
years.

Chastain had 13 kills and 11
digs, while Gaillard recorded 12 kills
and three blocks and Wolﬁng to-
taled 1 1 kills. Sophomore libero Jen-
nifer Lux tallied 19 digs against the
Eagles.

On Friday, Chastain was
named All-ODAC First Team, while
Gaillard was tabbed Rookie of the
Year and made All-ODAC Second
Team. Bryan Snyder received rec-
ognition as conference Coach of
the Year.

W&L (31-7) has established a
new program record for wins in a
season and will compete in the
NCAA Division III Tournament.
Date and opponent will be an-
nounced early this week.

Gladysz said the Generals be-
lieve they can compete with the other
teams in the NCAA ﬁeld.

“We played very well in the
ODAC Tournament and won all of
our matches in three games,” she
said. “Coming off this weekend, we
should be extremely conﬁdent.”

BARREIT DA\Vs/ The fling-

     

mPl2i
ODAC VICTORY. Senior Matthew Kimbrough and the Generals opened the 2002-03
season with a 165-63 win over Randolph-Macon at the Twombly Pool on Friday.

Generals avenge loss to Wesleyan, beat Lynchburg on penalty kicks for 1st ODAC crown

w-

BY DAVID CROWELL
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

SALEM — The Washington and
Lee women’s soccer team failed to
score through 110 minutes of game
play. For two physically exhausting
halves and two 10-minute sudden
death overtime periods, the Generals
fought to hold a 0-0 tie with
Lynchburg on Saturday afternoon.

But they eventually buried the
shots that mattered the most.

Freshman defender Heather
Rogers nailed the deciding penalty
kick and sophomore Emily Barker
made a crucial save to give W&L a 5-
4 victory on penalty kicks. With the
win, the 14th-ranked Generals
wrapped up the first Old Dominion
Athletic Conference Championship in
the program’s 16-year history.

“It’s amazing, it’s almost surr ,”
senior midfielder and co-captain Jenny
Thomas said. “We’ve been working
so hard and for all the seniors, this is
our fourth year and this is the culmi-
nation of our years of wor .”

A stingy Lynchburg defense that
had given up only six conference
goals over the course of the season
made W&L (16-1-3) battle all day for
the title.

The Generals and Hornets played
a physical first half to a deadlock, with
W&L holding a 4-3 advantage in
shots and a 4-2 advantage in comer
kicks.

Junior forward Fontaine Marcoux
got the closest to giving W&L the
lead with a shot from 10 yards out that
Lynchburg goalie Erin Johnson eas-
ily stopped.

Lynchburg   ’S SE80“ 

BY DAVID CROWELL
ASSISTANT spORTs EDITOR

LYNCHBURG — The Washington and Lee ﬁeld
hockey team fell to top-seeded Lynchburg, 2-0, on
Friday afternoon in the semifinals of the Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference Tournament, one of the
few obstacles that the Generals failed to overcome

this season.

In only its second season as a full varsity sport,
the ﬁeld hockey team ﬁnished with a 10-9 record
and a 6-3 mark in conference play, a huge improve-
ment from the 2001 year, when the squad finished

3- 10, 2-9 in ODAC play.

The team also earned the No. 4 seed in the ODAC
Tournament, allowing them to host a quarterﬁnal
match, which they won against Virginia Wesleyan.

“It was a very exciting season,” junior co-cap-
tain Kelly Taffe said. “We set high goals for our-
selves and we felt we could win the tournament. I
think we had the success we did because we never
underestimated our ability, and we set high goals.”

1 Against the Hornets, however, the Generals

didn’t fare better than they had in a 2-0 defeat on
Sept. 21. Lynchburg held an 18-1 advantage in shots
and a 9-1 advantage in penalty comers.
1 Dawn McGaha led the Hornets with a goal and
an assist. She scored the game-winner with 26:30
remaining in the game when she took a pass and
beat freshman goaltender Elise Gelinas.

Kyla Hoﬁman added some breathing room when
she took a pass from McGaha and scored with 8:22 left

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

Washington and Lee swimming
saw a busy weekend. Friday night
brought the Yellow Jackets from
Randolph—Macon to Twombly Pool,
and Saturday saw the men’s team
travel to Mary Washington.

The W&L women lost to
Randolph-Macon in a hard-fought
meet, 132-130, while the W&L men
won in a blowout, 165-63. In action
at Mary Washington, the men
dropped a close meet by a ﬁnal score
of 108-96.

The teams swam a long program
on Friday night, including both 100
and 200-yard races in the butterﬂy,
breaststroke and backstroke.

W&L senior captain Blair
Huffman earned a first-place ﬁnish in
the 1,000 freestyle, with junior Mandi

    

EBBR beRigIumP

ODAC CI-IAMPS. Senior midﬁelderjenny Thomas (2) helped lead Washington and
Lee to tournament wins over Bridgewater, Virginia Wesleyan and Lynchburg —
the three teams the Generals didn’t beat in the regular season.

The three-time defending ODAC
champions controlled the ball
throughout the second half,
outshooting W&L 9-2, with the Gen-
erals only able to make a few quick
runs into the Lynchburg zone.

Barker made a huge save in the
85th minute to preserve the tie, stop-
ping a point-blank shot by all-touma-
ment player Jennifer Clayton.

“She has been a great stronghold
for us in the back,” Thomas said.
“With her and Abby (Pfeffer), it’s very
corriforting to have some people in
goal that you can trust.”

The two overtimes featured very
little offense as both teams went 20
rriinutes without a big threat, forcing

Kimble close behind to take second.
Huffman also won the 200-yard but-
terﬂy and the 200 individual medley.

Freshman Beth Sauer won the
100 breaststroke in a spectacular race.
Sauer managed to pull away from two
Randolph-Macon swimmers in the
last 10 yards of the race to take first
with atime of 1:16.50.

The loss was W&L’s ﬁrst in 48
consecutive regular-season ODAC
dual meets. Head coach Kiki Jacobs
was disappointed, but noted a strong
opposing team. “Randolph-Macon
brought a very strong freshman class
tonight; we just couldn’t beat them.
Several of them will probably go to
Nationals and place, and that’s difﬁ-
cult to compete with.”

The men’s team had a much
easier time against Randolph-Macon,
whose men’s swimming program is in
its first year.

a shootout that pitted ﬁve shooters
from each team a mere 12 yards from
the opposing goalie.

Each team converted on their ﬁrst
three attempts, with W&L getting
scores from sophomore forward
Maggie Hope, Thomas and Marcoux.

When Barker made a diving save
of Kat Stuart’s attempt and senior
defender Lindsey Duran hit her kick,
the stage was set for Rogers, who
calmly converted and gave W&L its

' ﬁrst title.

“I just wanted to make one save,”
Barker said. “IfI rriade one save, I knew
we would score on all ﬁve of our shots.”

Coach Neil Cunningham also
praised the play of his goalie, who

While the 400 medley relay team
was defeated by the visitors, the
W&L men went on to win almost ev-
ery following event — the lone ex-
ceptions being the 100 and 200 breast-
stroke races, in large part due to the
absence of injured senior Zach Fake.

Multiple event winners included
senior Patrick Frankfort, who won the
200 freestyle and 200 backstroke and
junior Eric Ritter, who won the 100
backstroke, 100 freestyle and 50
freestyle.

Junior Drew Catanese won the
100 butterﬂy, junior Jonathan James
won the 200 IM, sophomore Chris
Colby won the 200 butterﬂy and fresh-
man Clark Barrineau won the 500
freestyle.

This was repeated in large part
on Saturday at Mary Washington, but
the Generals were unable to overcome
the large team that Mary Washington

in school history

didn’t play in a shootout loss in last
year’s ODAC Tournament. .

“She’s done great and she’s made,
giant strides,” he said. “Even though
she didn’t play at this time last year,
she’s had a great season and she
capped it this weekend with two great
performances.”

For her efforts, Barker earned a
spot on the All-ODAC Tournament
team, along with freshman midﬁelder.
Gina Von Stemberg, junior defender
Meghan Hayde and sophomore
midfielder Romney Willson. .-

W&L advanced to the ﬁnals with
a thrilling 2-1 victory over Virginia’.
Wesleyan on Friday afternoon. The
Generals avenged their only loss of
the season, a 1-0 defeat in Norfolk on
Sept. 7. N

VWC struck first in the secon
half, but the Generals answered only
2:31 later as a ﬂip throw-in by Tho-
mas hit a Marlin defender and got to
the back of the net. .,

Marcoux, playing in her first
game since breaking her foot in a game
against Chowari on Oct. 20, scored
the winning goal, her ninth of the sea-
son, after a free kick by Duran de-
ﬂected to her. -

“I think she happened to be on
the spot and the ball fell where she
happened to be, but it was nice to
have her back in the rotation,”
Cunningham said. “We were able to
get 20 minutes a half out of her, which
was a real help.”

The Generals return to action in
a new setting, the NCAA Division H1
Tournament. The time, date, location
and opponent will be announced this
week

    

jiza BRo‘_Oi<s/The Rtillg-I1I7IIP})1‘

SUCCESSFUL sEAsoN.]unior forward Kelly T affe (18), sophomore link Kitt Murphy and the W&L ﬁeld hockey ‘
team concluded their second year as a varsity program with a semifinal showing in the ODAC Tournament,

“They deﬁnitely beat us fair and square,” Taffe
said. “We played hard, but they outhustled us.
They were very aggressive and played with a lot of
intensity. They beat us to every ball.”

In goal for the Generals, Gelinas split time with
classmate Courtney Harrison to combine for nine saves.

With the victory, Lynchburg advanced to the ﬁ-
nals, where Roanoke avenged a regular season 1-0
overtime loss on Oct. 23 by defeating the Hornets, 3- 1.

Despite the loss, the future looks extremely
bright for the Generals. W&L will only lose senior
co-captain Kathleen Gibson to graduation, leaving if
a solid group of players to return in 2003.

“The prospects are exciting,” Taffe said “We will
have so much more depth and leadership next year.
Since we only had one senior, the underclassmen had ,\
to play every game and gained so much experience’.
VVith that experience, we’ll be a much better team.” =

ﬁelded. Even though the host team
lost seven of 1 1 events, their 23 swim-
mers overcame the Generals’ 12 to win.

Barrineau led the team with wins
in the 1,000 and 500 freestyle events.
Frankfort won the 200 freestyle, and

Ritter out-touched his closest oppo— .i.

nent to win the 50 freestyle. Colby
won the 200 butterﬂy by three sec-
onds, and James won the 100
freestyle.

Jacobs was quite pleased with
the tea.rn’s performance. “It’s tough
to swim so well and still lose the meet,
but the guys had a great day,” she

said. “This was their second meet in it

two days, and that always makes it
difﬁcult to compete, but they did well
against a deeper team.” .1
The W&L women return to action
on Wednesday when they host Hollins ‘
at 7 p.m., while the men will wait until
Nov. 22 to host Salem International.

 

ti.

