 
 

 

/-\r“cl‘t
-f’-”l’8.’i5S
(Q5552

 
 
   

3.‘

 

BY MATTHEW McDERM0rr
EDIT0R IN CHIEF

Construction of the proposed Wilson Center for Per-
Iforming Arts has been put on indeﬁnite hold, University
administrators announced at today’s faculty meeting.
The decision “has to do with the economic climate,”
Provost Laurent Boetsch said. “The University needs an-
other $25 million to complete the (For the Rising Genera-
ition Capital) Campaign.”
Boetsch and President Thomas Burish met with mem-
bers of art and music departments last Thursday.
“(Burish) was very descriptive and took us through

WASHINGTON AND i

NG-TUM

;EE UNIVERSITY

VOLUME CV, N0.X
MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2002

: :»\.'‘.'v~:nﬂl'‘ ,,,., d 4,“, -U.‘-_.“v-,,3,,!‘..é :- 4.

Tire rtiillelit wire of Writ/iingloii and lie Uiiiierrih since 7897 (D Olililii at: ])lii.u/lii.eilii

:Funding problems put brakes on Wilson Center

Kolman said. “It was a perfect economic argument: col-
leges throughout the country are feeling the pinch.”
The proposed building would cost between $20 and $24
million, according to information released in July by Univer-
sity Architect Tom Contos. Among other amenities, the build-
ing would contain practice rooms and a performance center.
Although concerned faculty members understood the
economic rationale, several expressed disappointment.
“I was broken—hearted,” Music Professor Barry Kolman
said. “We worked on the plans for over ﬁve years. We
wanted to get it right. We were ready to move in in 2005.”
“We were clearly a little disappointed,” said Music
Professor Timothy Gaylard, who said he felt most sorry

“The students need a state-of—the art, high-quality
building,” Kolman agreed.

“DuPont facilities are not really adequate,”
said senior theater major Neal Willetts, who claims
that the Lenfest Center was not speciﬁcally built
for musical performances.

Fitting two departments into one build-
ing has its price, he said. Johnson Theater,
for instance, is off—limits during Spring Term
because of senior recitals.

“Lenfest has fantastic facilities for the-
ater, just not music. A lot of time is lost when
the auditoriums have to be converted from one to

 

KOLMAN

Further, “members of choral groups have trouble
hearing each other on (Lenfest’s) stage,” Gayland said.

As a consequence, he said, “Choral groups
often perform at the Science Center. The acous-
tics are better there.”

Administrators stress, however, that ground
for the Wilson Center will eventually be broken,
though no firm date can be given.

“It’s not a cancellation, just a delay,”
Boetsch said. “The building is going to be built.”

John Wilson, for whom the proposed
building is named, was W&L’s 22nd president.
He presided over the Fraternity Renaissance and the in-

 

lthe decision step-by—step,” Music Professor Barry for the students. the other.”

 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
  

1.‘.
,.
BY ANDREW LATIMER
NEWS EDIT0R
!

Five-Star Generals and recent
graduates alike ﬂocked to Lexington
this weekend for Washington and
Lee’s Homecoming festivities.

The alumni returned to a much-
changed campus, especially at the
construction site of the University
Commons, the renovated Reid Hall
and new fitness facilities.

But some things never
change, such as the tradi-
tional crowning of the
Homecoming Queen
during halftime at

Saturday’s football

game. This year’s
winner was senior

Kathleen Gibson,

escorted by Grant

Dragan. (See pages

5-6 for pictures and

moreinfonnation.)

Alumni had a

wide variety of activi-
ties to choose from, in-

cluding five sporting
events, numerous open
house tours and an address by
Thomas Wolfe ’51. (See article be-

‘V in BRooI<s/TbeRin,g-t1iPbi
NUMBER ONE. Junior Andrew Cox (above) gets caught up in the page 7. 171581‘. Faculty, students and alumni gather on the
weekend’s festivities as the Generals football team rolls on to a 7-3 law school ﬁelds before the game to enjoy campus—catered
victory over Randolph-Macon. For complete football coverage see food. For more Homecoming coverage, see pages 5 and 6.

"New organizations

BY KATIE HOWELL

troduction of co—education.

Homecoming
weekend celebrated

Alumni, students gather for concert sports and speakers

low.)

The SAB hosted a well—attended
concert with Bruce Homsby on Friday
at the Activities Pavilion.

Campus organizations had to
plan well in advance for the inﬂux
of visitors. Dining Services had to
prepare nearly 1,500 meals for lunch
on Saturday. Campus Security
stepped—up the number of guards
on-duty to handle Friday’s concert
and traffic. No major incidents involv-
ing alumni or students were reported
as of press time.

Five-Star Generals, or those
who graduated 50 or more years ago,
had a chance to meet Washington
and Lee’s 24”‘ President, Thomas
Burish, and his wife Pamela during
Friday’s Lee House reception.

Following the reception, the
Five-Star General’s Banquet in
Evans Dining Hall posthumously
honored the contributions of Dis-
tinguished Alumni Award recipients
Frederick Pitzer ’42 and Robert
Walker ’42.

Alumni will return to campus
again on May 1 for Reunion Week-
end, which will feature events for the
undergraduate and law school
classes of 1953, 1958, 1963, 1968,
1973,1978,1983,1988, 1993 and 1998.

State maintains funds for city park

.ﬁght for smaller budget

While many state funds dry up, Lexing- Highway 11 bridge north of Lexington. It is on a
2 E t‘ C ‘u  t‘ ton has received money to continue devel— nine-acre island and peninsula formed by the
       oping Jordan’s Point Park, one of few natu- Maury River,Woods Creekandanoldmillraoe.
K . al "dth'1i't. Th k tlh"bl,
Analysis of budget changes 1 or clubs between 2001 and 2002 ' ”I:a:;’{;‘S:p,e‘;’;Zm:“S;,eDep, 1,, cm 1au:c‘,’1:ISa§§:’V°“,] .yg,aS.,p‘?$:S‘,:,E°;an°f:‘V‘.’ﬂ‘i
I . I I I of Game and Inland Fisheries agreed to grant provide larger boat launches and a place for
Great Percentage Gams G Pm C elnage the City up to $100,000 to build boat ramps cars and trailers to park outside the natural area
ORC’NZ’"7°‘V % “A7” “A1” OR“’WZ"T’°‘\l mo” “O” at Jordan’s Point. “Neither will interfere with the trails or
7 50009’ 1»025°/° $515 P0WCa/ H9V/9W (77%) ($515) “A lot of state grant funds have natural setting currently present in the
Travellep 426% $8,100 Women's Forum (42%) ($1,700) dried up,” Said Joan Neel Pmgram,S Ad_ park ,, Neel said
Ultimate Frisbee 200% $200 Nabors League (39%) ($5500) ministrator for the City’ of Lexington The city has been developing the park
Vl/.I.7'.S. 180% $900 The Ring-tum Phi (33%) ($1,500) ,, . . . . ' . . . . .
Club Softball 126% $195 Java at the GHQ (25%) ($2,000) But we did apply, and we did get it. This in various stages since 1997, Neel said. Prior
“T Habitat For Humanity 100% $1,000 Student Activity Board (17%) ($14,707) .
Rugby 70% $975 Contact (12%) ($6,000)  l U 
PRIDE 47% $700 Club Lax (M) (10%) ($150)
W&L Cheerleading 39% $337 Film Society (1.5%) ($100) I I
‘ * compared to previous system, Live Drive n  S e  n   
Total change in allocations: $15,498.28 less than 2001, a 4.2 percent difference.
Organization that received funding last year and did not in 2002: The Calyx BY Mm" MCDERMOTT
A EDITOR IN CHIEF
" Organzations that received no funding last year and did this year: Club Lacrosse (W), , _ “
Club Volleyball, Cycling Club, Fencing, FLC, Ice Hockey, Interfaith Dialogue, Journal Natlonany renowned 3“th°rT°mW°]f° explalnefl e‘'‘
or Science, KEWL, Law Speakers Guild, Liberty Hall Volunteers, LIFE, Men’s erythmg you need to know about the 21st century” In the
Philanthrophy, Mock Convention, Order of Omega, SAIL, Southern Comfort, Squash, first lecture of The Thomas K. Wolfe Jr. Distinguished
‘‘ Theatre Outreach, Transatlantic Society, W&L Dance, Women’s Philanthropy. Lecture Series.
' Total funding: 10.5% of total allocations, or $36,966 “The Gifts committee had a Short meeting to decide
_ g p p the first recipient of (the lecture series),” said Acting Dean
Chart by Andrew Lutimer, data provided by the Executive Committee. of the College Thomas Winialns, who introduced its “in_
spired choice,” Wolfe.
Q . , The lecture series is supported by an endow-
FROM STAFF REPORTS Collvenuoln a? 07mdn?tmfcwme’ the alter‘ ment designed to be self-sustaining after $1 million
mung cyc 60 g ‘Sm ‘ is raised for it. Funded principally by the Washing-

The picture of the Executive Comrriittee’s ‘

budget allocations became clearer this week

W as The Ring-tum Phi had time to sort through

1‘.

thepdata released last week.
A comparision with last year’s budget re-
vealed 22 organizations that received funding

,this year and had not in 2001. In all, 49 clubs
‘ shared the funding.

Somenewgroups,suchastlieOrderofOmega,
Men’s and Wornen’s Philanthropy organizations
wereaddedtothelistfor2002.Forothers1ikeMock

The SAB took the largest single funding
hit, which totalled over $14,000. Contact, an-
other major recipient of Excecutive Committee
funds, will work with a 12 percent smaller bud-
get for 2002-2003.

The biggest newcomer to the list is Traveller,
the revamped sober ride system for students.

Overall, the Executive Committee allocated
$350,774, representing a 4.2 percent drop from
last year. This cut continues the budget’s slide
from a high $389,639 in 2000-2001.

EDITOR IN CHIEF

is a wonderful opportunity to develop
the natural area.”
Jordan’s Point is located beneath the new

to that, a wastewater treatment plant occu-
pied half the island. When the city decided
to move that facility out of the ﬂood zone in
1997, it chose to develop the park as a natu-
ral area rather than an industrial or commer-
cial one.

“(A natural area) is what the community
wishes and desires, plus, the area is in a ﬂood
zone, so a natural park is the best solution
for land use there,” Neel said.

The addition of trails and picnic areas was 1

the ﬁrst step of the development. Neel said that
the boat ramps will be second, accompanied
by simultaneous historical development.

See JORDAN, page 2

ton and Lee Class of 1951, its contributors are former
classmates who remember Wolfe’s undergraduate
years.
“He was knownas ‘T.K.’ by us,”Tom Courtney ’51 said.
The series will bring speakers of international prominence
to W&L, Williarns said. According to the university’s news

See WOLFE, page 2

To get a students perspective on “hooking up, ” see Timothy
Smith is in-depth article on page 5.

]EBBR<)ois Tlie rig-rim; Jl

WOLFE, IN WHITE CLOTHING. Renowned author Tom Wolfe spoke to a ﬁlled Lee Chapel
Saturday morning. Students, faculty, alumni and visitors all attended the speech.

 

 

 

PAGE 2

 

A notice from

The Executive Committee
of THE STUDENT BODY

Gerald M. Titus, III
President

Kempton W. Presley
Vice President

Helen B. Hughes
Secretary

October I, 2002

A member of the Student Body
withdrew after being charged
with the possible Honor
Violation of misrepresenting
himself/herself by using a fake
I.D. to purchase alcohol in a
local retail store. The student
chose not to have a closed
Executive Committee Hearing.

Corrections

In the Sept. 30 edition of
The Ring-tum Phi, in the ar-
ticle titled, “Freshman drink-
ing rises dramatically,” Dr.
Jane Horton was reported as
saying, “W&L has a drinking
tradition which cannot be
stopped.” Horton was mis-
quoted. She did not make that
statement. In the first para-
graph of the same article, the
text should have read, “Stu-
dent infirmary visits are at an
all-time high for the month of
September,” instead of “Stu-
dent drinking rates are at an
all-time high for the month of
September.”

Part-Time

Retail Assistant.

Hard-Working, Friendly,
Strong Work Ethics. Apply at

The Victorian Parlour,

23 South Main St.,

Lexington
540-464-8888

MSA builds on strong EC support

BY DREW DAVENPORT
STAFF WRITER

During its apportionment proceedings
in September, the Executive Committee (EC)
allotted $14,500 to the Minority Student
Assocation (MSA), more than any other
campus organization except the Student
Activities Board, Student Bar Assocation,
Contact and Mock Convention.

“The whole organization is glad to
have support from the EC,” MSA Vice-
President sophomore Kaela Harmon
said. “It shows that we are getting more
validity on this campus.”

The $14,500 marks an increase from the
$14,000 MSA received last year from the EC.

“It gives them (MSA) a great opportu-
nity to do programming that is void heie,”As-
sociate Dean of Students Courtney Penn said
"Iherecannowbeeducationa1andsocialpro-
gramming that fulﬁlls (the void) positively.”

\lV1th the funding, the MSA hopes to di-

versify their programming and membership,
MSA President senior Meredith King said.

“One of our initiatives is to diversify,”
King said. “We want to represent all people
of color on the campus.”

In a show of broadening diversity, MSA
sponsored the Hispanic Heritage lecture last
Thursday featuring syndicated Dallas
Morning News columnist Ruben Navarette.

“MSA is going to have diverse pro-
grairnning to represent all American ethnic
backgrounds,” Dean Penn said.

DeanPennis aforn1ertreasurerofW&L’s
MSA,,which has been traditionally viewed
as a black student organization, he said.

MSA was fomied at W&L in 1985, but
struggled with its identity and became known
as the Black Student Union. The name changed
back to MSA in the late 1990’s and MSA has
strived to reach out to minority groups other
than blacks since then, Dean Penn said

MSA already has two non-black mi-
nority members this year, Harmon said.

MSA organizes a number of events
throughout the year. Their largest event, which
will be held in February, is the Jazz Cabaret.

Started by Dean Penn in 1999, Jazz
Cabaret is a serni—formal jazz event attended
by invited members of the faculty, admin-
istration and student—body. Last year it
took place at the Col Alto; but this year
with the extra funding MSA hopes to move
it to a larger venue, Harmon said.

The MSA sponsors other events in-
cluding a Parents Weekend dinner, a vari-
ety of activities during Black History Month
(February) and hosting various speakers
throughout the year. MSAhas brought sev-
eral speakers to W&L such as Congress-
man John Lewis, actress Yolanda King and
poet Maya Angelou. They also assist other
campus organizations such as PRIDE and
the Gospel Choir, King said.

“We help all organizations with the
purpose of supporting the community at
large,” Harmon said.

Famed author addresses community

WOLFE, from page 1

website,speakerswiIlwcnkwithW&Lun-
dergraduates and law students and meet
with “the broad University oornmunity.”
Wolfe gave his Lee Chapel address two
hours before Sat11rday’s Homecoming
Gare.

“I want to talk about the Spirit
of the Age,” Wolfe said. “(It is) the
moral tone which bears down on ev-
eryone living under it.”

Invoking Freud, Marx, and modem
neuroscience, Wolfe c1aimedthat“many
educated people no longer have a belief
in God,” inspired instead by detenninis-
tic interpretations of human behavior.

Wolfe used students’ sexual mo-
res, which he observed on a coast-
to-coast research jaunt, as an example
of the recent dehumanization.

“Does anyone remember the
word ‘date,”’ he asked, claiming the
institution had been superceded by
the “seven-minute seduction,”
where strangers “hook-up” after an
only precursory acquaintanceship.

“It used to be that first base was
kissing, second base was deep kiss-
ing and groping, third base was oral
sex and fourth base was ‘going all
the way,”’ Wolfe said.

 

 

Kappa   oamma

congratafates  Ho 4

“Now first base is deep kissing
and groping, second base is oral sex,
third base is ‘going all the way’ and
fourth base is learning the other
person’s name.”

Wolfe began his career as a re-
porter for Massachusetts’s Spring-
field Union, later becoming The
Wa s hi n g t o n
Post’s Latin
American corre-
s p o n d e n t .
After writing for
The New York
Herald Tribune
and New York
magazine in
1962, Wolfe
compiled an an-
thology of ar-
ticles into the best-selling “The
Kandy-Kolored Tangerine-Flake
Streamline Baby.”

Wolfe also wrote “The Painted
Wo1d,”"IheBonﬁre oftheVanities,”“A
Man in Full” and “Hooking Up,” pub-
lisl1edir12(IX)byFairar,Str‘a1isanclGiroux.
According to the W&L homepage,
Wolfe was “a leading ﬁgure in what be-
came known as ‘New Journalism,’ and
coined t.’r1e phrases “the right stuff,” “the
Me Decade” and'“radical chic.” 4

WOLFE (’48)

 

 

    
 

 

    

Park plans
left unscathed

JORDAN, from page 1

Historical development plans include creating a
transportation museum in the restored Miller House,
located within the park boundaries and building the
area to look as it did in Lexington’s beginnings.

Lexington City Manager Jon Ellestad said that
the area was the original historic hub for the city.
He said a gristmill and tannery operated in the
present park during the 1700s and 1800s.

“Jordan’s Point was a major commerce area,”
said Alice Wﬂliarns, co—chairman of the J ordan’s Point
Development Committee. “Now, it’s just all washed
away.”

Williams said the committee has been working
on a historical study of the area for four or ﬁve
years. Using old photographs and written accounts,
they have determined the locations of the pre-exist-
ing buildings and plan to rebuild them or note their
location within the park.

“Our architect (Carlton Abbot) wouldn’t let us
put anything in the waterway because of the threat
of ﬂooding,” Williams said. “So, we’re just going to
put up base forms or markers for the buildings in
those locations.”

Williams said money for the historical de-
velopment of the park is coming from two sepa-
rate Virginia Department of Transportation
grants.

“There has always been a boom of trans-
portation in the area,” Williams said. “Not
only were there Indian canoes traveling
through the waterways, but there were also
canal boats and later trains. Now there are
trucks and cars crossing the bridge.”

The park development committee also plans to
restore the lookout near the old covered bridge in
the park and build a low walkway over the waterway
to connect the Wood’s Creek trails with the Maury
River Chessie Trail.

“All communities are rapidly using their natu-
ral assets,” Neel said. “Eventually we are going to
rebuild the pedestrian bridge.”

According to the City of Lexington Web site,
the park was also recently designated a point on
Virginia’s Civil War Trails Program as the area where
Union General Hunter crossed into Lexington after
defeating it in 1864.

City officials are pleased with the new
plans for the area.

“This is one of the few natural areas left
in this urban setting that is pretty densely-
packed commercially and residentially,” said
Neel.

MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2002‘

 

Counseling support group to meet
for women in recovery from sexual assault

A conﬁdential support grou p sponsored by the Univer-
;..y Counseling Service is meeting weekly for Washington
and Lee women who have experienced sexual/abuse, includ-
ing severe sexual harassment, at any time in their lives. Each
member will sign an agreement of conﬁdentiality at the first
meeting. Please call Carol Calkins, the Counseling Service
secretary, at ext. 8590 or the Health Service at ext. 8401 to
learn of the time and location.

Traveller ride system continues service

Traveller is used as both a sober drive system and as a
campus bus route. It stops at several locations throughout
town and the east Lexington area. Two vans, driven by hired
assistant coaches, circle the route between the hours of 10
p.m. and 2 a.m. every night of the week. There is a dispatch
number, 458-8900, that students living beyond this route or
those wishing to travel beyond the ﬁxed route can call on it
Wednesday, Fridays and Saturdays.

Women to discuss publications

Women’s Forum is hosting the first of several commu-
nity discussions Tuesday night. All women faculty, staff and
students are invited to attend the open discussion on the
portrayal of women in W&L student publications. The dis-
cussion will be held at 8 p.m., Oct. 8 in Fairfax Lounge. ,,

Yale professor speaks about gun control

in annual Tucker lecture

Washington and Lee University’s armual John Randolph
Tucker Lecture featured legal scholar Dan M. Kahan dis-
cussing gun control on Friday at 12:10 p.m. in the Moot Court-
room at W&L’s School of Law.

Kahan’s address, which wasopen to the public, was titled
“What is the American Gun Debate About?” Kahan teaches
constitutional law, criminal justice and evidence at Yale
University’s law school. He has written on criminal law for
the Harvard, Georgetown and Columbia law reviews, as well ,.(
as for The Wall Street Journal and The Washington Post.

A magna cum laude graduate of Harvard Law School,
Kahan was president of the Harvard Law Review and later
clerked for Judge Harry T. Edwards of the U.S. Court of Ap-
peals for the Washington, D.C. Circuit and for then Associ- '
ate Justice Thurgood Marshall of the U.S. Supreme Court.

The Tucker lecture series was established by the W&L
Board of Trustees in 1949 to honor Tucker’s work as a W&L
law professor, the first dean of the W&L School of Law, a ’/
former president of the American Bar Association and as a
member of Congress. A

Past lecturers include notable judges, academics and
members of the American Bar.

Museum to commemorate day of Lee’s death '

Oct. 12 marks the 132nd anniversary of the death of
Gen. Robert E. Lee, 11th president of Washington College
and one of the namesakes of Washington and Lee Univer-
sity. To commemorate this occasion, the University’s Lee
Chapel and Museum will host a two—day program, “Remem—
bering Robert E. Lee.” William C. Davis is the featured guest
speaker. .

On Friday, Oct. 11, at 7 p.m., Davis will present a lecture
entitled “Lee and (Jefferson) Davis -True Partners in Com-
mand” in W&L’s Lee Chapel.

The annual Lee Memorial Service will be held at 1 l a.m. on

.9

Saturday, Oct. 12. Davis will speak on “Lee and Defeat as the '

Measure of Character” Music will be perfonned by Tim Gaylard,
organist, and Chris Magee, trumpeter, both music professors
at W&L. Dr. Thomas V. Litzenburg, director of the Reeves

Center at W&L, will preside. ,,

The public is invited to attend and there is no admission.
The Lee Chapel Museum will open Friday evening at 6
p.m. for the convenience of the audience.

Campus News Services and Sreya Banerjee contributed
to this General Notes report.

BEST BET IN LEXINGTON

<3

itMRLENE'S  TYLIST
REDKEN AMBASSADOR SALON
25 N. MAIN STREET

S40-463-6003
CERTIFIED SPECIALISTS
IN DESIGN & COLOR

MONDAY -FRIDAY 9:00-5:00

SATURDAY 9:00-2:00

LATE APPOINTMENTS
AVAILABLE UPON REQUEST

WALK-INS WELCOME
WAXING, PEDICURES,MANICU1?.ESr-.

Q2/633/(E)x9

 

Come Celebrate Our Q3ooK5igning:
W&L }7l[amnas

ﬂlnroxew 91 0LLI9\[(j££&

LEX,

Reminiscences of a Late 605 College Student

Saturday, Oct. 12

11:00 a.m. - 1:00 p.m. ’

 

Signed Cy Twombly and
 Sally Mann Books (of Art and Photography)

‘Zhe $00/{em .

107 W. Nelson St.
464-3377 or

bookery@rockbridge.net

Open 9:00 a.m. every day

l

 

  

“_IMRANNiEEMUuAH

OPINIONS EDHOR

‘I
‘ha.

a:_F1nAr;MtEiaMirLtiii@ivruE1)U
.;§:MoNnAY, OCTOBER 7, 2002

."7“\ﬁ‘-(.‘é'?‘* .9-".\';’al

Siiiiiiiiiipﬁuironnr
Banerdow nothave a toning brother-it-law

Too often, students take University
Security for granted, only recognizing its
existence when it comes between them and
an out-of-bounds parking spot or an out-of-
control party.

This antagonism is largely groundless.
Security officers have no arrest powers,
so it’s not as if we often see them slamming
a student against Newcomb Hall to frisk
him.

And University Security does not
operate in New Orleans or New York,
where campus police must interpose
themselves between students and rampaging
legions of muggers, arsonists and litterers.
Who remembers the Red Square Strangler
these days?

No, by and large, Security protects us from
ourselves.

Security is a buffer between the student
body and Lexington’s Finest. Few can count
the number of fights broken up or drunks
shepherded to their rooms. Without our often
overlooked officers, many W&L students
would be sporting DUl’s and MIP’s on their
resumes.

Yet these officers are taken for
granted.

Security does little things, like making sure
VMI joggers don’t cut through President
Burish’s inauguration.

It also does larger things, like driving girls
to their Woods Creek apartments at night.

How many officers do students regularly
greet by name?

Not enough. This is a shame, since many
ofﬁcers have interesting pasts. One member of
Security worked for the mil’tary police in
Vietnam, another danced competitively. From the
13 full-time individuals who work security (with,
we’re assured, over 150 years of combined
experience), we select a representational few
that students should applaud.

For example, Sergeants Larry Stuart and
Melvin Davis not only supervise shifts but
also teach W&L women a self-defense

‘course.

And Sergeant Thomas “B aner” Bane,
traffic supervisor, does not have a brother-in-
law who owns an impound lot. Baner does not
receive kickbacks for every irnproperly-parked
vehicle. When that Explorer gets towed, all he
has is the satisfaction of a job well done.

Mr. Young, Director of Security, belies his
gruff exterior with acts of grandmotherly
kindness. Few people who talk to him can walk
away unconvinced of his golden heart.

Mr. Tornlinson, Mr. Young’s number two,
is the only security officer regularly seen with
a tie. He adds a touch of class to the
organization.

So have a little respect for the men and
women who protect us and our campus from
difficulties we often create for ourselves.

‘.‘.'x.'i::'.t.T:i~. -

Editors in chief Katie]. Howell
Matthew B. McDemiott
News Editor Andrew Lalimer
Opinions Editor ImranNaeemullah
Arts & Life Editor Catherine C. Guy
Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin
Asst. Sports Editor Dave Crowell
Photo Editor Jeb Brooks
Photographers McQueen Calvert
Tallie Jamison
Barrett Daws
Business Manager Paul Seifert
Asst. Business Manager Thomas Worthy
Circulation Director HenryGrimball

  

THE

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editors in chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring—tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http‘://phi.wlu.edu

THE RlNC}~TUM PHI

PINIONS

PAGE 3

WAR: THE UNITED STA'iEs VERSUS lRAQ—

With both the Senate and the House of Representatives set to vote on a resolution supporting war on Iraq, the nation is at a crossroads. Do
we invade Iraq pre—emptively, thus stopping Saddam Hussein from potentially developing further weapons of mass destruction? Do we
resort to diplomacy and weapon inspections, and run the risk of appeasing a dictator? The Ring—tum Phi felt it appropriate to open a forum
for varying opinions on this important national issue. We encourage the W&L community to continue further debate on this issue.

Shortest path to peace: make war with Iraq

When Caesar conquered Gaul, and
eliminated the Nervii and Helvetii west
of the Rhine, the defeated peoples made
no move to cross the river again for
one hundred years. Caesar had no real
mandate to do anything but defend his
assigned post, when he took command
of Rome’s section of Southern France in
59 BC. The next year, he more or less
decided to conquer all of Gaul and
embarked on a six—year campaign against
the Gauls and the Germans whojcame

across the Rhine in a combination

migration/attack. In 53 B.C., just when
it seemed that Caesar had subdued the
whole country, the Gauls rose in
rebellion under Vercingetorix, and it
took another two years
of fighting and the
famous encirclement
siege of Alesia for the
Roman Legions to triumph.

My ‘point (I do have one) is that
although Caesar’s conquests don’t
appear to be much more than personal
aggrandizement, their aftereffects are
amazing. Gaul became one of the most
stable, Romanized parts of the Empire,
and was more or less peaceful for a
couple of centuries. Caesar and other
Roman generals always seemed to feel
the need for a buffer zone, and kept on
pushing the boundaries of Roman
civilization outward, one adjacent
kingdom at a time.

Now, compare this blatant imperialism
of the past to the role of the United
States in the early 21st century. Our
generals are not in a position to take
power over the country through victory
in battle. Our president and his closest
advisers, who had to divest themselves
of virtually all investments, stand to
gain nothing from any of our imperial
ventures. I’m not, by the way, referring
to a possible American invasion of
France. '

What I’m talking about is Iraq.
Here’s the plan: quick, brutal war to
suppress Saddam and his minions.
Machiavelli would agree with me, and
so would Martin Luther. Both wrote
that when you can’t avoid war, you

BEMUSED BYSTANDER even take control of
WILLIAM Fox ‘05

must wage it with the utmost ferocity
until your enemy is defeated, and
then enjoy the peace that decisive
action has given you. Let’s face it,
doves, putting off the removal of
Saddam Hussein is like saying “let’s
give Hitler another six months and
perhaps he won’t annex anything
else.” I’m going to go with Luther on
the second phase of war, though.
Instead of killing everyone in a
position to oppose us in Iraq, as
Machiavelli would perhaps advise, I
suggest that after the surrender of the
Iraqi hordes, we show the utmost
charity and mercy, as we have in the
past. It’s almost a reverse ‘mouse that

roared.’ Hell, we can

Iraqi customs and pay
ourselves by selling
their oil for a couple of years to cover
some of the costs of the inevitable
occupation, just like the bad old days
of American Imperialism in Central
America and the Caribbean.

Can Iraq become a bastion of
democracy in the Middle East sans
Saddam? Maybe. It’s worth a try, at
least, and I’m sure none of us want to
read in the morning papers 10 years
from now that the Iraqi President has
placed ten nuclear bombs in 10
American cities by clever use of the
diplomatic pouch. Iraq has a lot going
for it if you remove Hussein and his
Ba’ath cronies. It has one of the most
highly developed infrastructures,
plenty of educated people, and enough
oil to help leaven the economy,
without being the only source of
revenue. Of course, it also has a
Kurdish minority in the semi-
independent North, and unhappy
Shiites in the South. I’m not saying
this is going to be a cake walk, but
perhaps the United States should try
a hand at nation-building again. I think
it’s possible that Iraq, with a minimum
of help from us and the Europeans,
could get itself back on its feet. Then
again, practically any different
government in Iraq would be preferable

United States must not engage in war

I consider myself a strong patriot, and even
in the midst of mounting criticism against
American actions here and abroad, I still feel
nothing but admiration and gratitude for

America and its citizens. A

people. Even if Hussein dies, it is not impossible
that an even worse tyrant will assume power. If
that were the case, then all of our energy and
resources would have been poorly wasted.
America has a tendency to

lot of discourse is now TRAN OF THOUGHT meddleinto the affairs ofothers.
taking Place I0 analyze I116 ._ ‘ If the Iraqi government has
United States’ plans to TRANKIM  possession of nuclear and

wage war on Iraq.

At first, I was nothing but supportive of
invading Iraq feeling hopeful that this might
destroy Saddam Hussein’s regime and end an
era of tyranny for the Iraqi people. But of
course that isn’t the only reason we want to
wage war; there’s also the issue of oil and

nuclear weapons.

Regardless of the reasons, though some
may be in good thought, such as saving a
group of people from destructive rule, war is

not the solution to
solving this problem. We
waged war against Iraq
before, and Hussein still
stands strong. How can
we be so sure that the
outcome will be any
different this time around?

Warfare is a
daunting task that
sacrifices many
individuals, both
physically and mentally.
Not only does it harm

our men and women, it may also hurt the
Iraqis, those people we claim to be helping
in the first place. The sanctions against Iraq
did nothing but possibly leave a small
scratch on Saddam Hussein’s government,
but for the Iraq citizens, it created
starvation, illness and poverty. The United
States government cannot be certain that
this war will not yield devastating results
for the Iraqi people who are merely innocent
civilians and responsible for Hussein’s

actions.

Yes, innocent civilians do die in warfare, and
in some cases it is justiﬁed, but in this instance, it
is not right. I believe in making sacriﬁces but not
when it yields nothing but misery. That is why
there is no justice in invading Iraq. It is uncertain
whether American intervention will help the Iraqi

My American mother

once told me that you

cannot change others;

all you can do is

change yourself and
hope that your ex-

ample will be followed

by others.

biological weapons, so be it.
Though it makes me tremble to think of a nuclear
weapon being at the hands of an unstable man
like Hussein, I cannot rightfully say that he does
not have a claim to create those weapons.

We possess them, and if we are not
willing to sacrifice ours, we have no right to
ask the same of others. It is hypocrisy to
demand of others what we, ourselves, refuse
to do. Furthermore, there is no need for us
to worry so much about the actions of other
nations. We need to
focus on our own
actions. We can use
persuasion to convince
others to follow our
beliefs, but we cannot
force them to believe our
philosophies. Expecting
this creates nothing but
u n n e c e s s a r y
frustration.

My American
mother once told me that
you cannot change
others; all you can do is change yourself and
hope that your example will be followed by
others. American foreign policy should
follow the same code of conduct. No matter
how good you are or how successful you
may be, there is always room for
improvement.

In conclusion, American needs to step
back, re-organize, and come up with a new
plan to address the problems that the Iraqi
people pose to its people and to other
nations. Somehow ending destruction with
further destruction seems to lack sense.
And I doubt Americans really want to wage
warfare. We want to solve a problem. And
as intelligent and creative as we are, I am
certain we can do better than just wage war
to resolve this issue.

to one which has stockpiled enough
Botulinum toxin to kill every human

ri)IJinEsYstiiIEiu:\t'iiL

WAR MONGERER. His claims to the contrary, Saddam Hussein has nothing but evil intentions for
the region around him. He desires an empire, and will stop at nothing to get it. The United
States needs to remove him from power, and fast, so that his nefarious plans are halted.

It’s only a matter of time until we don’t
have the luxury of options in dealing with
on earth, and keeps trying to buy Saddam, so let’s get it over with, and bring

fissionable material. peace faster.

Bush avoids economic issues

United States need not attack Iraq, War on Terrorism enough

Swamped in domestic
economic problems, President
Bush ponders whether or not to
invade another autonomous
country unprovoked. It doesn’t
take an expert to see that this is a
mistake, and will result in the loss
of thousands of our military.
Worse than this, it may result in
the loss of many lives in the
Middle East, as any invasion
would probably lead to
instability in the region.

0 n e
problem with
invading Iraq is
that a large
number of
troops would be needed,
probably in the hundreds of
thousands. Many military
experts agree that any invasion
would require a large force to
destroy the power center of Iraq.
Since most of our traditional
military forces are not used to
the kind of urban warfare which
would be critical in any invasion
of Iraq, casualties would be
high. The nature of urban
warfare dictates that casualties
are unavoidable. Also, how do
we measure whether or not
we’ve won? Is our goal to create
a new nation or to simply knock
Saddam Hussein out of power?
The president needs to decide
what our goal is, if he decides to
invade, so we do not get
ourselves into another Vietnam-
like situation.

Even if we have a goal to take
Saddam out of power, any
invasion would provide a time for
him to release any weapons he
might have. This puts Israel (as
well as other nations) at
significant danger, as Saddam
has the missile capability to

  
    

COMMON SENSE
ONATHAN WORTHAM ‘O4

reach, not only Israel, but Kuwait
and Saudi Arabia as well. If he
knew 100,000 or more troops were
headed for Baghdad, why
wouldn’t he shoot these
weapons? Invasion puts Saddam
in a situation where he has
nothing to lose. Arbitration
through the UN, with the
potential for lifting of UN
sanctions, however, puts him in
a situation where he has
everything to gain.

A ii 0 t h e r
smaller, yet
s i g n i f i c a n t
negative aspect
of invasion is the
toll it would take on the War on
Terrorism. We are also still
engaged in a very active military
campaign in Afghanistan. Basic
military principles dictate that
one should avoid war on two
fronts, if possible. If we invaded
Iraq, we would risk being
surrounded by some potentially
hostile nations and lose much of
the Arab support we managed to
rally for the War on Terrorism.
War on two fronts, especially
after the Clinton era cutbacks
could make winning very
difficult. Also, it could
potentially give the al—Qaeda
network time and/or a place to
regenerate.

Saddam Hussein is an evil
man who has oppressed his own
people for decades. However, the
United States should not be
drawn into a conflict where
victory would be extremely
difficult for only marginal
benefits. President Bush, his
cabinet, and Congress will weigh
these and other considerations
carefully. I for one hope they will
arrive at the right decision.

 

    

PAGE 4



Cell phones rude, defy Speaking Tradition

Increasing prevalence of the anti-social and distracting contraptions detract
from quality of life on campus, interrupt classes with annoying rings, meant for private use

Sure, we all had a good laugh during those Saved
By the Bell episodes when Zack Morris’ cellular phone,
a little under the size of a toaster, rang during class.
That boy had the ability to order pizzas from Principal
Belding’s office and even managed to prank call his
teachers during some mischievous shows. Zack was
quite a cool character, and his trusty cell phone never
hurt his preppy image.

While Zack’s cell phone ownership seemed to be
relatively uncommon in the early 90s, the technologi-
cal boom of the new millennium has enabled many a
W&L student to augment his own preppy image by

. toting a smaller and
' i 5,  MY NORTH FACE far more colorful cell
. Kurt COEN ‘04

phone around cam-

pus. From the C-
School to the Colonnade, and the footbridge to your
run—of—the—mill country party, I hear them ring, far more
often than our own Lee Chapel bells. I have my doubts
as to whether or not this is a good thing.

Don’t get me wrong, cell phones are a great inven-
tion. They are a safe and helpful thing to have when
driving long distances, which many W&L students
have to do, hailing from all parts of the country. Some-
times, they are cheaper than long distance calling plans,
serving as a financial advantage for keeping in touch
with family and friends. They can simply make life easier.
If Domino’s is about to close, and there is no real phone
nearby when you just need that order of cheesy bread
to make it through the night, cell phones can make it
possible, unless of course, you don’t know the num-
ber. Cellular phones are one of those neat things that
many people today can’t imagine living without. How-
ever, it is when people can literally not live without
their cell phones that this dependency causes an ex-
treme breach of public etiquette.

I can think of nothing ruder than a cell phone ring-
ing during a class. It is both an insult to the professor
as well as to the student’s peers. At a school of such a
high academic caliber, I find it pretty hard to believe
that W&L kids lack the mental capacity to read a
manual, causing them to habitually forget to turn their
cell phones off before entering a classroom. Cell phones

 

are pretty easy to operate and neglecting to turn one
off causes an unnecessary interruption that does not
make the culprit look any more important or special. It
gets worse.

While studying in the colorfully decorated aca-
demic mecca that is Leybum Library, it is extremely hard
to focuson studies when random cell phones ring and
people attempt to whisper quietly (or not so much) about
their latest drama(s). I don’t know about anyone else,
but when I talk to people on a telephone, I prefer to do
so in an environment that is not filled with people furi-
ously studying German history and physics.

Nor do I enjoy being subject to some stranger’s
verbally enunciated issues. In the midst of typing this
very article in a computer lab, the location disclosed to
protect the innocent, I just heard the person behind me
seerriingly having a one—way conversation. I turned
around, and guess what? Someone had called that per-
son on a cell phone! I’ll admit, I laughed out loud, but
in all seriousness, who at this school is so important
that they need to be able to be contacted, at all times,
even while checking their email?

For those who may have read my preceding dia-
tribe on the deficiency of our speaking tradition, cell
phones also offer an excellent way to avoid saying hello
to someone. After all, how can you be expected to
greet someone else, when you clearly are talking to
another person on a really cute phone? I recommend
cell phones for people who like to avoid speaking to
their peers because it lends a much more plausible ex-
cuse than the simple eye aversion technique demon-
strated by many a student on campus.

Just as we cannot say “time out” and freeze a
scenario in the real world as Mark-Paul Gosselaar so
often did on his early—90s teen sensation television
show, we cannot use cellular telephones to forego
social tact as a means to draw unwarranted attention
to ourselves. If you want to look cool, wear Reefs in
the winter, put ribbons in your hair, and bedeck your-
self with insanely expensive designer logos. Respect
your academic commitment to W&L’s faculty and stu-
dents and leave the public cell phone usage to scenes
from Clueless.

Bush triumphs politically with Iraq

This past week The Washington Post reported that
steps were finally taken to unify Washington on Iraqi
policy. The President has finally listened to reason. Rather
than stampeding off across the globe in our nation’s
first preemptive strike with no real
checks and agreements on the attacks
against Iraq, Bush has decided to lis-
ten to reason.

The first and most important
agreement reached by Congressional Democrats and the
Commander in Chief was lirriiting military action only to
Iraq. We all saw how difficult things were when only
dealing with Osarna Bin Laden in Afghanistan. Yes, we
are fighting a global war on terror, but we need to ensure
that the President takes on one thing at a time.

Secondly, rather than completely shirking the ad-
vice of the United Nations, Bush agreed to policy that
will encourage the use of the United Nation’s skills of
diplomacy with Iraq. I mean, let’s face it. When our Presi-
dent is comfortable throwing around the
word evil and accusing his colleagues in

LEFT OF CENTER
NICK RAMSEY ‘03

political leaders and the American public can have a little
more knowledge on about how their tax dollars are being
spent. This only seems rational, but for the past few
weeks, it has been like pulling teeth to reach an agree-
ment on this matter.

Thus, the President has done two
things. First, he has made the process
much more democratic by agreeing to
have others, more or less, keep this mili-
tary campaign in check. Second, and very intelligently
so, Bush has made certain that, if and when he enters
this military strike, he will be backed by bipartisan sup-
port out of the Capital Building.

Quite honestly, this can be touted as one of the
better political triumphs of Bush’s administration so far.
Bush has shown he realizes the importance in working
with others. He’s no longer the guy with the big shiny
pen that sits in the Rose Garden signing papers that
others are uncomfortable with. There can now be open
dialogue between our two major political
parties. There can also be healthy dia-

the Democratic Party of “not caring Thls can be touted as one of logue between the United States and the
about America’s security,” it is evident the better political triumphs other nations of the United Nations con-
that the man is not exactly the most dip— of Bushas adminismm-on S0 ceming Saddam Hussein and his oil-rich
lomatic man in the world. realm.

Moreover, with assurance that the fat Bush has Sh0Wn he The President’s agreements this week
United Nations will be involved, Bush realizes the importance in also pave the way for international sup-
has also allowed the rest of the free world . . port. Currently, aside from Great Britain,
to have avoiceinAmerica’s dealings with Working Wnh Others ii“ a the idea of military action against the

Iraq. While many Republicans feel that
this is none of the rest of the world’s
business, one thing is clear. Whatever the United States
does in Iraq (which many intelligence experts believe will
be ousting the current government), will have a profound
impact on other governments. Therefore, it seems only
fair that the United States allow these countries a voice
in the matter.

Lastly, Congressional Democrats reached an agree-
ment with Bush that ensures the administration will re-
port to Congress on a regular basis. That way, both our

    
         
     

  

Reel Time Fly.Fishiiig A8: .Outfitt’e_r_;f§

    462-6100..--.   
www.re‘cltimeflyfisliing.comT

bipartisan manner].

Mats     
Outerwearaand myFishrngtroructs     

Now Availablein

23WestWashington St},   I, _
-Lcxington,VA’ 715450  

Iraqi regime is less than popular. But this
type of agreement will open communica-
tion between the United States and the other member
countries of the United Nations Security Council.

If Bush has any hope of getting United Nations in-
spectors into Hussein’s palaces and other off-lirriit sites,
romancing countries like France and Russia into adopting a
stricter agreement with Iraq is key. It seems that for Bush,
the art of negotiation must begin at home. America must
come to the negotiation table uniﬁed if it hopes to have any
credibility with the rest of the world.

Lari!!!-IL:

PART-TIME
STOCK ASSISTANT.
Hard-Working,
Well-Organized,
Strong Work Ethics.
Apply at The Shenandoah
Attic,

17 South Main St.,
Lexington
540-464-8383

Letters to the Editor

doiskceptheminformedofwhatthepolicy is, whichwe did, but '1
ultimately they have to decide for themselves what they want to D 53

Denbow does not understand honor
DearEditor, ’

What does Michael Denbow know about honor at Wash-
ington and Lee? I’m afraidthat givenhis last article in W&L’s
other campus newspaper, The Trident, "Ihe Honor Code
cards and ﬁnds a fake,” he doesn’t know very much. For start-
ers, atWashington and Lee, we don’t have an Honor Code; we
haveanHonorSystem.'lhatmay seemlikeaminor grammatical
mistake, but it is not. An Honor System, such as ours, lives in
the hearts and minds of every student. There is no code that
enumerates transgressions or violations, which by its own na-
ture, would become decrepit and obsolete.

The Honor System at W&L is transformed as seniors
graduate and leave, but also grows with every entering fresh-
man class. Embedded in the principles of the Honor System is
not only the ideal that every student will conduct himself or
herselfhonor'ably,butalsothatheorshewillnottumab1ind eye
to what they perceive is an honor violation. Still, it is ultimately
the Executive Commit1ee’s responsibility to evaluate if a stu-
dent has conducted him or herself honorably. It seems to me
thatthefreshmanhadagoodunderstandingofwhathewas
doing, however. So much so that he chose to withdraw before
facing anExecutive Committee hearing.

I’m not here, however, to discuss the Honor System, and
wliatltliinkisorisnotarrhonorviolationlwﬂlleavethattothe
ExecutiveGommittee. I’mheretodiscussanaccusationDenbow
makes inhis article. He accuses adorrncounselor of being over-
zealous forﬁrst,canyingouttheresponsibilitiesofadormcoun-
selor,aridsecond,forupholdirigthehoriorsystemlikeanyother
Wasltirlgtonaridlee student should Thedormcounselorcan-
notbeblamedforthedecisions sorneoneelsemadelrithis spe-
ciﬁccase,thestuderitrnadetwoseriousmistakes.First,heuseda
fakelDtobuyacaseofbeer. Hejusthappenedtodoitinﬁontof
adormcounselonbutitcouldalsohavebcerianyotherstudent

Still, the dorm counselor would not have known it was a
fakeIDhaditnotbeenforwhatthe studentdecidedtodonext.
He then drovebacktohisdorm, whichhappenedtobethe
same one the donncounselor lived in. His second mistake was
whenhedecidedtowalkintohisdormcarryinghiscaseofbeer,
in obvious violation of the alcohol policy. Only then did the
dorm counselor question the freshman. It is the freshman’s
responsibility, not the donn counselor’s, to live up to the conse-
quencesofhisdecisions.Thisisanotheridealembeddedin
Honor System, “Lee established the positive, though unwrit-
ten, rule that students are to accept responsibility for their own
conduct” (Ihe White Book, page 1).

It is unfair to call that donn counselor overzealous. The
Dorm Campus has a duty to report violations of the alcohol
policy to the Deans. Then, the student is given a choice: he can
either accept the strike or contest it at a Student Judicial Court
hearing. There again, student members of the SJC are respon-
sible for deciding whether the student’s actions merit a strike.
The dorm counselor has no role in deciding what the policy is,
and does not have the ﬁeedom of interpretation. In this speciﬁc
case,theon1ythingthatthedonncounselorcanbeaccusedof
is doing a job well done. The dorm counselors have no respon-
sibility for the unfortunate decisions of others. The rriost we can

MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2002 '

do.

Still,thereis sornethingeverimoredist1nbingthanDeribow’s
lack of knowledge about the Honor System Fraternity brothers
ofthefreshmanwhowithdrewhavedecidedtoharassﬂiatdorm
counselor. They have continuously called, and even left her

threatening messages on her voicemail. Is this the way we do ._

things at W&L?
Sincerely,

Raphael Penteado’03
HeadDorrnCounselor

Denunciation of German Chancellor unfair
DearEditor,

I’d like to give you some feedback on one of your stories, ‘
published in the Sept 24 issue of the Phi, entitled, “Coward of i '

the weelc Gerhard Schroeder, Gennan Chancellor.”

Fnstofalllthankyouforthefactthatyoutookanissue 

factthaty<xididsocormarlictstlrecorrnrim;xej1xﬁceir1Garriany ’

thatAmericancollege students don’tevenknowwhaeGemianyis.

Apartﬁomthattlierearethroethingsldisagroewithinyour
article: the heading, “rallying against United States invasion of
IraqAT THE LAST MINUTE”, and “Schroeder DIDN’T DE-
NOUNCEtlie statement” (oftheGermanSecretary of Justice).

In the second and third quote, you may call the Ger-
man chancellor an “unabashed panderer,” if that’s your opin-
ion, that’s ﬁne. What you may not do is distort facts or simply
not tell the truth.

You wrote the chancellor rallied against the U.S. invasion
of Iraq “at the last minute.” Is that true? Did the German chan-
cellor change his statement at the tirrie of the election or did he
say from the beginning, when President Bush raised the issue,
that Germany would not participate in a war against Iraq with-
out a United Nations mandate? Gerhard Schroeder stated it at
the beginning of the debate, certainly not “at the last minute”.

The statement made by the former Gennan Secretary of
Justice was ambiguous and certainly was a ﬂaw. Where did
you read that the German chancellor did not denounce his
secretary’s statement? Is it not a fact that he apologized imme-
diately to President Bush, called the secretary to Berlin to report
tohimpersonally andﬁnallyﬁredheraftersheadmittedto
having used the comparison? Of course he did

Finally, why is the German chancelloracoward? You didr1’t

explain it explicitly in your article but I guess you elected him .
“Coward of the Week” because you think he let down the ‘

American hawks at the last minute of the German election to

gain votes. As stated earlier, he did not do so at the last minute. _ ,
Why should he be a coward then? Because he did not have the I 1
same opinion as the American President? I do not think the fact .

thathedisagroedwithanallymakeshimacowardatall.

Please, base your next argument on thoroughly re-I _.

ported facts and not gossip.
Sincerely,

Matthias Dachtler
GermanExchange Student

    W+L’s Own Rap/Rock/Funk Band,
  (Music by 311, Red HotChili Peppers;
lieastie Boys,        

  vocals-Michaelxhauak  
‘Guitar + Vocals -RockyTRosacker I .
Drurnme'r+ Vocals — Andre Toneyp .
_ Bass - Luke Williams-

 

4

     
 
   
 

 

  

 

CATHERINE C. GUY
AaIs&LIEE EDIIOR
EMAII;GIIY<@wIiIn1I

  .  RT_s
Alu mm

Washington and Lee University celebrated another year’s Homecoming
this past weekend with tremendous response and support from students,
faculty, and alumni. Numerous student groups and organizations held
receptions for the returing alumni. Lexington saw an inﬂux of graduates this
weekend, both recent and .

On Friday night, the SAB sponsored a concert at the Pavillion by Bruce
blomsby at the Pavillion, an event that drew a large and enthusiastic student
audience.

On Saturday morning, students, faculty and alumni marched over to the
Law School ﬁelds for Tailgate.

Immediately following tailgate, the Generals Football team defeated
‘Randolph-Macon 7-3 on Saturday afternoon following tailgate at the Law
School ﬁelds.

Many spectators felt that the highlight of Saturday’s football game was
the armouncement of the Homecoming Queen. Nominees from 22 different
Qampus organizations and their escorts paraded across the ﬁeld at halftime.
The nominees were interviewed by a panel of faculty members and the court
was chosen according to campus involvement as well as the interview.

This years winners were:

Homecoming Queen: Kathleen Gibson, ‘03
Nominated by: Chi Psi
Escorted by: Grant Dragan ‘03

First Rurmer-Up: Blair Allen ‘03
Nominated by: Pi Beta Phi
Escorted by: Skye Justice ‘03

Second Rurmer-Up: Meredith King ‘03
Nominated by: MSA
Escorted by: Toussaint Crawford ‘03

l

Turn to page 6 to see more Homecoming photos.

We all know the story. Even if for last night’s drink, hoping
you haven’t been in Greek Central there’s something left in the can.
for too long, you must know this Then, as they begin to ask each
all too familiar tale. Girl meets frat other about the events of the

‘boy. Girl meets Natty Light. Frat previous hours, they find

THERING-TUMP

 

boy, meanwhile, is usually pretty
good friends with Natty Light.
Anyway, girl meets frat boy, Natty
_Light, and eventually meets frat
boy’s bedroom. To
make..a..1ong.. story. 
short, girl wakes up
the next morning
‘and meets the
legendary problems of “The
Morning After.”
Now, of course you will read
this and immediately wonder to
yourself: “Why does it have to be
a girl meeting a boy, and so forth?”
Naturally, the opposite is often the
case. However, for the sake of our
ninvestigation, we will stick with the
above model — especially since
boys usually don’t find themselves
in the sorority house bedrooms. In
fact, from what I understand, any
oy that strays
into illegal
zones of the
sorority houses

 

A I ABSOLUTE FRATLORD
TIM SMITH ‘04

GIRL MEETS FRAT BOY.

themselves in a pickle, since they
have no idea what the other one’s
name is. You can see where this is
going — certainly, it does take
much for the
h ,0 o k — u p
aftermath to
explode in a
nuclear blast of
regret and repentance. But, by the
grace of God and Robert E. Lee,
there are solutions to the dreaded
“Morning After.” Just follow
these simple rules.

First, and most importantly,
the Walk of Shame must be
avoided at all costs. The Walk of
Shame is what gives random
hook-ups a bad name — there is
absolutely nothing worse than
allowing the poor girl to walk out
alone, feeling more humiliated
with each pair
of eyes that
watches her
out the door.

twill find himself GIRL MEETS NAT” LIGHT’ Guys: if you
tackled by FRAT BOY: MEANWHILE 15 allow this to
mercenary VMI USUALLY PRETTY GOOD happen, you
security guards, FRIENDS WITH NATIY L1GHT_ a re dirt.

who will then

“carry you to the
secret dungeon
in the basement of the East
Lexington store, where you will be

«beaten by a combined group of
bitter townies and Panhellenic
Council representatives. So like I
said, we’ll stick with what we’ve
got.

‘ So back to “The Morning
After.” Here we find our boy and
girl, sorting through the aftermath
of whatever nameless acts they

Incomrnitted. First, they look at each
other, then desperately start looking

Don’t be like

that scumbag

before you —
go that extra mile to make the Walk
of Shame a regret of the past. Offer
your new nameless lady friend a
wonderful Waffle House
breakfast. Or, if your regrets are
unbearable, get dressed up with
your lady friend and (God forbid)
go to church —— and so you know,
there are a few denominations
that hold services on Saturday.
You can see my point — it doesn’t
matter how you do it, but don’t
let the Walk of Shame leave a

l& LIFE ~e

PAGE 5

K B l‘lR()Ol§\’/ TlIeRizIg—t1I/11 Pl;/’

OPEN WIDE. Sophomores Jared Harrison and Kyle Meehan enjoying tailgate at the Law School ﬁelds prior to the football game. For more Homecoming pictures, turn to page 6.

Morning after requires proper etiquette

permanent stain on your one-
night-stand.

Now that you’ve completed
step one, the other important
guideline is this: Communication
is Key. For a school with such a
celebrated Speaking tradition, it is
amazing how many people I’ve
found who, for some reason or
another, don’t speak their minds.
I, for one, love to talk — ask my
friends, they’ll agree without a
second thought. It is really very
simple — just tell your new hook-
up pal how you feel. If you wanted
only a one-night thing, say so. If
you want something more, say so.
If you want to finish his or her
Wafﬂe House hash browns, say
so —— then put some Tabasco on
that stuff and go to town! The
worst thing in the world is
uncertainty — it breeds
awkwardness and bad feelings. So
be honest with your hook—up
colleague and eliminate
uncertainty before the problems
begin.

So guys and girls, the next time
you find yourself in a face—to—face
encounter with “The Morning
After,” remember these few
suggestions, and you’ll be all set
to celebrate the glory of your
random rendez—vous without the
pain of disappointment. No longer
will you be forced to avoid all of
those hook-up buddies of the past
— instead, you’ll be able to see that
girl or guy, say hello, smile, thank
him or her for the hash browns, and
talk about trying for the Colonnade
Club (see my previous article).

Of course, all of what I said is
null and void if you somehow manage
to achieve the improbable and hook-
up again in the moming. Then you
would face “The Afternoon After,”
and that’s an entirely different story.
Callmeat463-ll60,andI’lltellyoual1
about it.

Its the chance of a lifetime.....

Write for arts and life, email guyc @wlu.edu

   

The Phi looks back on Homecoming in Wolfe’s day

Articles and photos reprinted from 1951 Calyx:

HO1’1’l6COl’IllIlg was SO SWCCt.....
Washington and Lee, 32; Davidson, 0

Before a homecoming crowd
of several thousand on October
25, the Generals made short work
of Davidson’s Wildcats by
burying them on the bottom of a
32—0 score. Getting off to a rather
slow start, the Blue really got

underway in the closing part of the first quarter,
when Brian Bell‘ took a Davidson punt and scampered
forty—five to the goal. Tightening up, the Wildcats

 

 

were able to hold the Blue to small gains in the
second period, but after that W&L just showed too
much power. In the second half, Charlie Harrington
racked up six more points on a 41-
yard payoff run, Gene Bennett
went over twice on dashes of five
and twelve yards respectively
and Center Joe McCutcheon
concluded by intercepting a
desperate, last minute pass
attempt which he carried twenty—five yards for the
tally. Walt Michaels was successful in two of his
extra point attempts.

ALL PHOTOS BYJEB BROOKS / The Ring-tum Phi

At

SUN. Sophomores C.T. Stroud, Katie Fox, and Carli Hague.’

5-STAR. This meber of the class of 928 was
W&L’s oldest Five-Star General in attendance
this weekend. He joined the queen nominees
on the ﬁeld to help announce the winner.

bovez Dedicated Generals fans cheer the team to victory

Right: Radiant Homecoming Queen Kathleen Gibson
Below Haynes King ‘05 and Kasey Smith of North Carolina
State stand out in the crowd of spectators

Below Right: Ringsend, a Richmond band, entertains the
students, faculty, and alumni at tailgate

I

   

_ ‘ ,Jl?REl\rlYFRANlx1lN
§,}§SRoRisEDII0R
:':Fl\tAlEPRlNlxHl\J@W1U.El)lJ

TI-IE lil“NG—~TE,l.‘\-Il PEI

SFMONDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2002

W&L wins defensive
§.strugg/e over Yellow Jackets
 go 2-0 in conference play

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

 Defense wins football games.
Washington and Lee kept
pass-happy Randolph-Macon out
of the end zone, and a touchdown
pass from junior Peter Dean to
‘classmate Jon Brimer was all the
offense the Generals would need in
a 7-3 win at Wilson Field on Satur-
_ day.
.; W&L improved to 2-2 overall, 2-
0 in the Old Dominion Athletic Con-

to 3-2 and 1-1.
Senior Hunter Price, who set the
‘ Yellow Jackets’ career passing record
in the first half, completed 26—of-45
passes for 204 yards. But the W&L
secondary held when it counted, and
,. the Generals’ pass rush sacked Price
four times among several hits on the
quarterback. '
“We had a great plan going in,”
said junior defensive tackle Brian
‘ Becker, who had two sacks. “We
watched a lot of film, and their offen-

ference, while Randolph-Macon fell J

sive line is not really quick on picking
up blitzes. So we confused them a lot,
and pretty much just got in there all
day.”

The W&L defense responded
well to Randolph-Macon’s spread of-
fense, which featured four or ﬁve re-
ceivers on nearly every play.

“The secondary played well
against a very good quarterback
and very good receivers,” W&L
coach Frank Miriello said. “We
put some pressure on the quar-
terback, and he hadn’t felt that
before.

“We had a pretty good plan, and
the kids executed it.”

The Yellow Jackets scored first
on the afternoon after Bobby Akers
intercepted a Dean pass off a deﬂec-
tion. Price led Randolph-Macon into
W&L territory, and David Ping booted
a 42-yard field goal with 1:49 left in
the first quarter.

W&L scored their only points
of the day following an intercep-
tion by senior Matt Conners. Dean
drove the Generals 56 yards in five
plays, finding senior Jay Thomas
and sophomore Taylor Callaham
for long completions.

Brimer then made a touchdown
grab in the back of the end zone, his
first collegiate score.

 PORTS
i Generals knock off Randolph—c, 7-3

 

QB PRESSURE. Senior Matt Stavish (55) hits Randolph-
Macon’s Hunter Price just after the quarterback delivers a pass

“I always imagined that the first
touchdown would be a big deal, but it
really wasn’t. It was like any other
play,” Brimer said.

Neither team could muster
much offense in the second half.
The best scoring chance in the

third quarter went to the Generals,
who came up scoreless on a 73-yard
drive when junior Whit Whitfield
missed a 27-yard field goal.

After stalling for most of the
second half, Price and the Yellow
Jackets had one last chance to

.Men’s soccer garners 2 ODAC wins

Generals break into conference win column with 3-1 win at Emory & Henry, 2-0 home victory over Randolph-Macon

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s
soccer team saw an excellent week of

t play, aslthey traveled to Emory &
Henry on Wednesday to post their
first ODAC win, and then hosted
Randolph-Macon on Saturday mom-
ing at the Liberty Hall Fields.

"' The Generals defeated Emory &
Henry 3-1, and shut out Randolph-
Macon with a 2-0 win.

W&L scored once in the first half

¢. against Emory & Henry, thanks to
senior midﬁelder Kevin Bibona’s shot,
assisted by sophomore midfielder

' Joshua Grahe in the 30th rriinute.

The Wasps tied the game in the

‘.‘:'i:;50th minute with a goal from Will

fiMcBryde, assisted by Greg

g",Stephenson. But W&L freshman
 ifmidﬁelder Walker Nickles scored in
 the 84th rriinute, and senior forward

1' Brad Murphy iced the cake with the

 ﬁnal goal in the waning rriinutes of

the game.
W&L senior goalie Tim Foley

’ earned three saves for the game, while

Tommy Smith made eight saves for
Emory & Hemy. W&L outshot the
Wasps 19-9 for the game, and had six

1,. comer kicks to the home team’s three.

The Generals returned to the ﬁeld
for their home opener on Saturday af-

'5 ternoon against Randolph-Macon.

» Homecoming weekend proved to be

'13’ an inspiration to the Generals, as they

[defeated the Yellow Jackets soundly.

I

OFFENSE IN GEAR. Senior forward Brad Murphy prepares to
shoot in W&L’s 2-0 win over Randolph-Macon in the

W&L began their scoring drive
at 21 :29 when senior midﬁelder Kevin
Bibona headed in a cross pass from
senior midﬁelder Sean Hardin. More
than 45 rriinutes later, freshman de-
fender Roger Morscheiser jumped
over the Yellow Jackets defense to
head in a comer kick from Nickles.

Foley earned one save against
Randolph-Macon, while the Yellow

Jackets’ starting goalie, Nick Warner,
had to be replaced by freshman Tay-
lor Grant after Warner was injured
during the game. The two combined
for one save during the game. The
Generals outshot the Yellow Jackets
19-5, and had eight comer kicks to
their one.

Oddly, the game play was punc-
tuated by an inordinate number of

J PB BR()()l\_\/ Tin Ring-trim Pin
Generals’ home opener at the Liberty Hall Fields on Saturday
as sophomore midﬁelder Justin Mygatt (22) cuts upﬁeld.

penalty calls. The Generals were called
for 20 fouls to Randolph-Macon’s six.
The only other time the Generals have
been called for as many fouls was
against Methodist, with 21 against
them. However, in that case, Method-
ist was called for 19.

W&L hosts Southern Virginia on
Tuesday at 4 p.m. at the Liberty Hall
Fields.

. W&L tops Vixens, wins Goucher tourney

E W&L improves to 5-0 in ODAC,
‘ sweeps trio of tournament matches

BY DONNY BANKS
SPORTS WRITER

‘ The Washington and Lee volleyball team
‘ swept Sweet Briar at home on Tuesday and then
won all three matches at the Goucher Invita-

94'.

tional on Saturday.

W&L picked up its ﬁfth Old Dominion Ath-

g, letic Conference win of the season with a vic—_
tory over Sweet Briar in the Warner Center. The
team got the job done in straight games, win-

ning 30-20, 30- 14, 30-26.

Despite the sweep, the Generals didn’t seem
J to dominate in their customary fashion. “We
were a little off tonight,” head coach Bryan
Snyder said. “This is strange, considering that
during this past weekend’s tournament (the
1, Emory Classic), even though we came out with
1 a few losses, we played well and had a lot of
: intensity against quality opponents. “We’ll
.' have to learn more from our mistakes next time.”
Sophomore outside hitter Emily Wolﬁng led
.  ‘the Generals with 11 kills. Fellow outside hitter
i lvlichelle Chastain recorded seven kills, ﬁve digs
t _ and ﬁve aces, while freshman middle blocker
 , Susan Gaillard enjoyed some success with seven
 ‘kills and three blocks. Sophomore setter Jenni-
‘ “ fer Lux also vexed the Vixens with 28 assists.

 

we came out with a win.

“We’ll just have to work a bit harder on our

consistency.”

and Elizabethtown.

amassed 54 assists.

the all-tournament team.

Tournament on Thursday.

After the game, Chastain added to the
coach’s concerns. “We had a lot of trouble com-
municating tonight, and we deﬁnitely didn’t
bring our best game,” she said. “Nonetheless,

The Generals advanced to the Goucher In-
vitational in Baltimore over the weekend, sweep-
ing three matches against Chowan, Marymount

In W&L’s 30-12, 30-15, 30-22 win over
Chowan, tournament MVP Chastain ﬁnished
with 12 kills, while freshman setter Christine
Gladysz notched 39 assists and 10 digs.

Chastain had 21 kills and eight digs in the Gen-
erals’ 30-14,30-15, 3016victoryagainstMaryrnount.
Gaillard tallied 10 kills, and Gladysz had 35 assists.

W&L finished the invitational with a 32-30,
30- 17, 33-31 win in the championship game over
Elizabethtown. Chastain again recorded 21 kills
to go along with nine digs, while Wolﬁng ﬁn-
ished the match with 15 kills and nine digs.

Lux and senior outside hitter Stacey
Kimmel combined for 31 digs, and Gladysz

Chastain, Kimmel, Gladysz and freshman
middle blocker Taylor Gibson were named to

W&L (17-4, 5-0 ODAC) travels to Newport
News to compete in the Christopher Newport

26 win over Sweet Briar at the Warner Center on Tuesday.

JEE BRooI;s/Tire Ring-tum P/Ii
UNDEFEATED IN ODAC. SophomoreJennifer Lux sets the
ball for freshman Taylor Gibson in W&L’s 30-20, 30-14, 30-

find the end zone. A fumble by
senior Chris Sullivan gave
Randolph-Macon the ball at their
own 25-yard line with 3: 16 remain-
ing.

Price marched his team down to the
W&L 1 l—yard line, but the Generals held

J EB BR(X)l{S/ T/re Rmgtrrm P/I2"
in W&L’s 7-3 win at \X/ilson Field on Saturday. Juniors Brian
Becker (94), who sacked Price twice, andJess Lipsey pursue.

PAGE 7

on fourth-and-goal with 0:33 left.

Sullivan’s streak of eight straight
100-yard rushing games, which tied a
school record, came to an end. The
tailback was held to 27 carries for 89
yards, 56 of which came before halftime.

W&L’s run defense, which en-
tered the game third in the ODAC in
yards allowed, looked even sharper
against Randolph-Macon. The Yellow
Jackets finished with 68 yards on the
ground.

Miriello wasn’t pleased with the
number of yellow ﬂags that his team
racked up. W&L entered the contest
with seven penalties for 62 yards on
the season, but committed eight for
76 against Randolph-Macon.

“Very disappointing to me to
have all those penalties,” he said. “I
think our kids had a little lack of disci-
pline there, which is very strange for
us. But we’ll solve that problem.”

The Generals pulled out the win,
and they have a chance to go to 3-0 in
the ODAC for the ﬁrst time since 1982
when they travel to Catholic on Sat-
urday.

“Right now a lot of teams are
going to underestimate us because we
don’t put that many points up,”
Becker said. “But if we keep playing
our game, the offense will get rolling,
and we’ll start taking people.”

Have an idea for a W&L

sports column or feature to

run in the P/oz?

Contact Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin
at fmmé/2'71/@n//rt. edu or X4060.

PAGE 8

 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 20023



Field hockey pulls even
in ODAC at Bridgewater

BY DAVID CROWELI.
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee ﬁeld
hockey team reached an important
milestone by defeating Bridgewater,
3-0, on Wednesday afternoon.

Coupled with a 4-1 victory last
Sunday against Virginia Wesleyan,
the Generals were able to win back-
to-back Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference contests for the first time in
the program’s short history.

Coach Wendy Orrison was
more pleased overall, however, with
how the Generals got the victory.

“I think it was a solid win. We
clearly won, but it wasn’t a blowout
where obviously you’re in a position
to win from the beginning of the
game,” she said. “We had to work hard
for each of the goals, and I think it
gives the girls a lot of conﬁdence go-
ing into the next conference games.”

-Keeping a switch in the lineup
that the coaching staff put into place
for the Virginia Wesleyan game,
W&L came out slow, barely cross-
ing the 50-yard line for the first 10

FIIEH-IOIO
EAGLES LANDED. Sophomore Grace Barlow scored one of Washington and
Lee’s three goals in the Generals’ shutout win over Bridgewater on Wednesday.

W&L ensured the victory over

the Eagles with two goals in the sec-_

ond half. Sophomore midﬁelder Kitt
Murphy scored an unassisted goal
with 30:23 remaining in the game.

Sophomore forward Grace
Barlow provided the ﬁnal margin of
victory when she scored off an as-
sist from freshman midﬁelder Lind-
say Face with 4:38 remaining.

W&L’s week ended early in
terms of matches, as Catawba’s
coach cancelled the scheduled Fri-
day game between the two squads
due to an outbreak of mononucleo-
sis on her team.

Orrison believes that it is prob-
ably better, as the Generals earned a
well-deserved break.

“If any game could get can-
celled, this would be my choice,” she
said. “We have three games this week
with a lot coming up. My girls don’t
get to rest during Reading Days ei-
ther, so I hope they get time to rest
and take care of their bodies.”

The Generals return to action
when they host Randolph-Macon
Women’s College on Wednesday at

Generals roll over ODAC foes '

Women's soccer opens 5-game conference homestand with blowout wins over Emory & Henry and Guilford

BY DAVID CROWELL
ASSISTANT srORTs EDITOR

It was only a matter of time before the Wash-
ington and Lee women’s soccer team found the
back of the net against Guilford on Saturday
afternoon.

In the first 20 minutes of the contest, W&L
(7-1-2, 5-1-1 Old Dominion Athletic Conference)
failed to convert on two great centering feeds
by junior Fontaine Marcoux, and was whistled
on offside calls at least three times.

In addition, sophomore Maggie Hope’s
shot from close range sailed above the crossbar
after Danielle Brisotti deﬂected a shot by
Marcoux.

Senior midﬁelder and captain Jenny Tho-
mas didn’t miss, as she took a pass from fresh-
man defender Heather Rogers and drilled it in
with 23 :28 to play in the first half.

“We were overanxious, with a decent crowd
and it being Homecoming,” coach Neil
Cunningham said. “We had some chances that
normally we would put away comfortably. We
just needed to get the first one. Getting the first
one makes all the difference.”

From there, the Generals opened up on the
Quakers, using exceptional ball movement to
stake a 6-0 halftime lead. Hope scored two goals
within four minutes of Thomas’ score, getting
an assist from Marcoux on her first tally.

With the assist, Marcoux broke the career
assist record of 23, previously held by 1999
graduate Karin Treese.

Marcoux, junior forward Susaimah Hewlett
and sophomore forward Molly Plummer each
added a score in the first half.

In the second half, the Generals suffered a
mental lapse as a poor pass in the defense led to
a goal by Kimberly Mullen, the leading scorer in
the ODAC, just 29 seconds into the half.

Cross country runs at Dickinson invite

FROM STAFF REPORTS

The’ Washington and Lee men’s
and women’s cross country teams
traveled to Carlisle, Pa. on Saturday
afternoon to compete in the
Dickinson Invitational, a unique test
of depth and stamina.

Senior Burke Duncan ﬁnished in
16:37.32 to take 19th place.

In the 6K race, freshman Ashley
Brown paced W&L with a 62nd place
ﬁnish (26:53.13). Senior Jen Fallon ﬁn-
ished in 27: 16.71 to take 69th place.

In the men’s 4K race, sophomore
Steven Chambers placed 16th by com-

Cumiingham chalked the goal up to the Gen-
erals holding a big lead, but praised the efforts of
his captains in pushing the team to the ﬁnal whistle.

“That’s the true sign of a captain. (Junior
defender) Meghan Hayde was doing a great job
out there, bringing up the level of everyone’s
play,’’ he said. “It will make a difference in the
postseason.”

In the ﬁnal 10 minutes, Marcoux added her
second goal of the day and Rogers scored on a
penalty shot.

Plummer recorded a hat trick on Wednes-
day as W&L started out the week with an 8-0
rout of Emory & Henry. The Generals outshot
the Wasps 51-0, while freshman goalie Mandi
Pietrzyk made 23 saves for the visitors.

Plurrirner and sophomore Martha Allgood
scored in the first half for the Generals, who
turned a 2-0 halftime lead into an 8-0 win.

In addition to Plummer’s two second—half
goals and Allgood’s tally, four other players
found the net for W&L. Leading scorer Gina
Von Stemberg, a freshman, had a goal and two
assists, and freshman Keny Giblin recorded her
first collegiate goal.

Hope, who assisted on Allgood’s goal, and
Marcoux also scored in the second half.

The game allowed Cunningham to use most
of his roster; sophomores Abigail Pfeffer and
Emily Barker also split goaltending duties for
the Generals.

“Everybody is at the same experience level, ~

and the game never drops when anybody comes
in,” Plummer said. “It’s great that everybody
gets to have a chance to play.”

The Generals return to action when they
host conference foe Randolph-Macon on
Wednesday at 4 p.m.

Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin contributed
to this report.

start at 11:30.

The women’s race begins at
10:30 a.m., while the men are slated to

Golf places 9th at Gui/ford/

Tom 0’Briant Invitational
The Washington and Lee golf

 
  

GIVING CHASE. Washington and Lee sophomore Maggie Hope
and Emory & Henry freshman Ashley Elkins go after the ball
in the Generals’ 8-0 win at the Liberty Hall Fields on
Wednesday as seniorjane Ledlie looks o_n. 9

tr
than the Generals to take ﬁfth place, but
W&L placed better than Bridgewater
(12th place), Hampden—Sydney (15th)
and Randolph-Macon (l6tli).

Senior Chip Campbell led the’
Generals by carding a 71-75—l46,
good enough to finish in a tie for
eighth place.

min“teS_°f the game 6?30P-1h~ The Women rah ih 3 4K race and pleting the course in atime of 13:16.22, team competed in the Guilford/1" om Freshman Tom Borda shot a 79- .
Jhhler fefwehd Ke11YTeffe Seered The game is the ﬁfst Of three Te‘ 3150 e°mPeted ih 3 6K race The mehis while senior captain David Hicks ﬁn- O’Briant Invitational on Monday and 73—152 to tie for 29th place. Sopho— A
the game-winner at the 7:05 mark of mining ODAC games on the sehed- team faced the same 4K mm but also ished 42nd (1351.40). Tuesday at the Cardinal Golf & Coun- more Ged Johnson (75-80) and senior
the ﬁrst half’ but Omson Still feels that we If ‘he Generals Wm 311 three» 111' had eh 8K h1h- After the e°1hP1eh°h 0f Junior Andy Schorr led the Gen- try Club in Greensboro, N.C., placing Chuck Green (78-77) each ﬁnished

her squad needs to work on coming
out strong from the ﬁrst whistle.

“We definitely came out a little
slow, but after the ﬁrst few minutes
Bridgewater barely got back
across,” she said. “We need to work
on getting out and playing hard.

“There’s a lot of 1-0 games in
ﬁeld hockey and if we start slow and
give up a goal, that could be it.”

cluding a match against Randolph-
Macon on Oct. 24, they should be in
line to ﬁnish fourth in the conference.

“If we get fourth, it’s so big be-
cause we get to play at home in the
first round,” Orrison said. “But we’re
still concerned about Randolph-
Macon Women’s College, because
they’ve upset some teams and
they’re very strong.”

both races, the scores were combined
to determine the team’s overall ﬁnish.

The women’s team placed sixth
out of 20 teams, while the men were
ninth out of 21 squads.

In the women’s 4K race, the Gen-
erals were led by freshman Molly
Drake, who placed 15th by crossing
the tape in 16:22.12.

erals in the 8K race, crossing the line
in 28:08.03 to take 20th place. Sopho-
more Wes Bell ﬁnished in 32nd place
(2823689).

The men’s and women’s teams
return to competition next Saturday
when they run in the Virginia State
Division H-IH meet at Bridgewater
College.

ninth out of 16 teams.

W&L played consistently, shoot-
ing 303-305—608 as a team, and ﬁn-
ished 27 strokes behind team cham-
pion Duke University (285-296—58 1),
who won the tournament for a record
third straight year.

Old Dominion Athletic Conference
foe Guilford ﬁnished 13 strokes lower

three strokes behind Borda and ﬁn-
ished in a tie for 43rd place.

Duke’s Mike Lefebvre won the
individual title by shooting a touma-
ment-record ﬁve-under-par 65 on the
first day, then following with a 75 on
Tuesday.

W&L competes at the Greens-
boro Invitational today and Tuesday.

I

SCOREBOARD

oin the sports staff of

SAruRDAv’s FOOTBALLYARDLINE W&L SPORTS SCHEDULE: OCTOBER 7-13

0 0
Washington and Lee 7, Randolph-Macon 3 October 7-8 October 12-13 b RZ
Randolph-Macon 3 0 0 0--3 G°" . w°'“e“'5 Tehhls I 6 ” "' ﬂm 2
Washington and Lee 0 7 0 0_7 W&L at Greensboro Invitational W&L Fall Festival, 8:30 a.m. ' I
First Quarter Tuesday, Oct. 8 Saturday, Oct. 12 '

Men’s Soccer
Southern Virginia at W&L, 4 p.m.

Wednesday, Oct. 9
women’s Soccer

Cross Country

W&L at Virginia Division ll-Ill Meet
Women’s Soccer

Roanoke at W&L, 11 a.m.

RMC — Ping 42 FG, 1:49
Second Quarter
W&L — Brimer 20 pass from Dean (Whitfield kick), 7:55

Cover fall sports, from soccer to Volleyball.

Field Hockey »
RMC W&L  ‘“ W&L’ 4 ""“' Juniata at W&L, 12 p.m.
F'rst downs 18 19 . F°°1b3" . - - - ° -
n',,.,,,.,,,,,, 32.6,, 33.92 “Mm 1‘ W&L: 63° 1”" we atcamouc.1p.m. Layout and copy editing opportunities are also available.
Passing yards 211 201 -lhi‘etihs‘l!1ai:i,ck(:yL 10 Isnaiai/Iiaringiffiiitellili Design at W&L
Return yards 28 59 - 1 . ' . . . . 5'
com .An..m 27.49., 1.3.33.2 W&L a‘V"'““"°’ 4 "'"" 33° "'"“ Contact S orts Editor erem Franklin at rank/m @u2/zredu or
p Friday Oct 11 Sunday Oct 13 ‘ ‘/

Sa°'‘e°'Y“'d5 '°s‘ 4'28 2'” Men's Soccer Golf Assistant Sports Editor David Crowell at crouze//d@z://medu, call X4060 or
PWS 1032-2 5-371 Lynchburg at W&L, 4 p.m. W&L Challenge at Midlothian, Va. _
Fumes-'°S1 1-0 1-1 stop by our office at 31 West Washington Street Mondays at 5 p.m. '
Penalties-yards 8-97 8-76 .
Time of Possession 29:52 30:08   

 

ODAC Overall
INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS ream w L w L pi: pi
RUSH|NG—Rando|ph-Macon: Bush 14-60, Price 17-10, Washington and Lee 2 0 2 2 65 73
Jenkins 1-(-2). Washington and Lee: Sullivan 27-89, Caramore 3- Bridgewater 1 0 5 0 175 39
7, Rankin 1-5, Diverio 1-2, Team 1-r-1), Dean 5-(-1o). Hampden-Sydney 1 1 3 1 133 77
PASSlNG—Rando|ph-Macon: Price 26-45-1-204, Jenkins 1- F1a"d°'P“‘Me°°“ 1 1 3 2 82 74
3-0-7, Team 0-1-0-0. Washington and Lee: Dean 16-33-2-201. Em°"y,& Henry 0 0 2 2 60 103
RECE|V|NG—Randolph-Macon: Strong 9-so, Haggard 7-46, °“?“°"° ° 1 1 3 5: 

Kimball 5-67, Maher 3-14, Muench 2-9, Dent 1-9. Washington and G”'"°'d 0 2 2 3 9

Lee: Caramore 4-30, Brimer 3-57, Thomas 3-53, Rankin 3-20, °°l- 5 Re5“"3 °°l- 12 s°h°d”'°

Cauaham 229’ Sullivan H2" ‘I;v'81ll:einia't:iaarn3dtl)Iiizlgnrpzhtietinsiirdney 7 ‘gnaici-ryait (I:-iﬁriirinaict Hampden

|'| , -
IWERCEPT|ONS—Randoiph-Macon: Henderson 1-5, Akers Camonc 26’ Lasane 15 Sydney
1'2- a5h'”9t°" ahd Lee C°”he'5 "12- Guilford 21, Greensboro 7 Guilford at Fernim
. Spring Break 2003 with STS
 O   Americas #1 Student Tour
. . . O erator

Earn $1,000-$2,000 this semester witliaproven CampusFundra1ser I S HT . P hT V IF“:/e

3 hour fundraising event. Our programs make fundraising easy 6 ups eafngzgs Ia ,6 Listen to W &L athletics on WLUR 91 5 FM it
with no risks. Fundraising dates are ﬁlling quickly, so get with Informauo eservatlons ' '

the program! It works. Contact CampusFundraiser at (888) 923- 1'800'648‘48l49 or Visit the W eb Site at http_//wlur wlu edu for
3238, or visit www.campusfundraiser.com www.ststiaVe .com ' ' '

the full fall broadcast schedule. ,
J

 

 

