 

-l

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

NG-TUM

The ihrrierri eerie  Washington and Lee Urriherrih time 7897 (D Orr/irre his ti/er'.re//rr.erI’ir

I ‘Alumnus ives president VIP lounge

Y Payne space will stay with administration; English epartment may get Washington rooms; Room named for fomrer Trustee

BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTT
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

University President Tom Buiish
Y may no longer have to bring VIP’s
back to Lee House for entertaining,
once the Mason New Room replaces
the current Dean of Students Ofﬁce.
The Dean of Students Office
moves to the University Commons
this summer.
Friends and family of the late
Mason New ’62 gave approximately

1 $500,000 for a “place where the presi-

dent would have presidential facilities
for entertaining,” said Provost Larry
Boetsch.

The room will likely have a large
table in its center, with arm chairs ar-
ranged téte—a-téte around its periph-
ery, according to a preliminary sketch,
prepared by Charlottesville architect
Madison Spencer ‘76.

‘ The renovation will also hope-
fully restore the currently-plastered-
over fireplace, Farrar said.

“The idea is that the president of
Washington and Lee should have not
excessive but gracious appointments:
a special place to bring guests,” Farrar
said.

In late March, Farrar and Univer-
sity Architect Torn Contos will discuss

Watt New and sister—in—law Annette
White, wife of John White ’62 and
‘7lL.

A separate plan, not supported by
the New fund, envisions a courtyard
with trees and a fountain in the nook
between Payne and Washington Halls.

The Payne Hall room, near the
university’s center, will allow occu-
pants to observe student traffic and
to easily reach any part of the campus.
The President and the English depart-
ment:

With campus real estate so tight,
the President’s Ofﬁce has not been the
only one eyeing the newly-available
space.

The English department, which
occupies the area atop and aside of
the Dean of Students Office, also had
designs.

“We have inadequate office
space for the four adjunct faculty,”
said Jim Warren, English department
head. Faculty had hoped to use the
new room to remedy the situation.

It also had plans for a seminar
room and a “hybrid” writing lab/semi-

NEW IN ‘61
New was a Sigma

and a member of

nar room——literal plans, sketched by Kappa Alpha as a
Contos‘ _ student at
We thought we were (getting Washington and
the space),” Warren said. “We un— Lee in the early
sixties.

sEE PLAYROOM, PAGE 2

PEI  

 

, VOLUME CV, N,O,XXIl
MONDAY, ll/IIRCII 10,2003

Mason New gives four decades to W&L

BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTT
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

Though Mason New ’62 died before finishing his
first year on the Board of Trustees, he nonetheless left a
long record of service to his alma mater.

“He was a very dedicated alumnus who gave of his
time in many ways to Washington and Lee,” said Peter
Cronin, director of University Development.

“He was a remarkable guy, a truly dedicated supporter
of W&L,” agreed University Secretary Jim Farrar ’74.

New began his efforts as a caller in the annual alumni
Phonathon. He later became the president of the Alumni
Association and member of the Alumni Board of Direc-
tors.

sEE NEW, PAGE 2

the plans with New’s widow Mary

‘W&L may sell
Troubadour

V‘ BY KYLE WASS
'sENIOR STAFF WRITER

DIII>ERs?

 

When the University Commons opens in the fall of
2003, the Washington and Lee community can say good-
bye to the Troubadour Cinema. '

The Washington and Lee Film society cunently uses the
TroubadourCinema, aquainttheat1elocatedinRedSquareacross
ﬁomPi KappaAlpha and nexttosigma Nu,topresent“a series of

pr critically acclaimed US and foreign ﬁlms throughout the under-
graduate school year,” according to their description. Since Sep-
tember, the Fihn Society has shown ﬁlms such as Punch Drunk
Love, Monster ’s Ball, and About a Boy, among others. There are
regular showings Fridayandsaturday nights at7:30, with adiifer-
T erit movie showing each weekend

However, the University Commons — scheduled to open
next fall - will negate the Uriiversity’s need for the Troubadour
Cinema. Torn Contos, the University architect and facilities plan-
,‘ ner,said,“basically,whatIknowisﬂiatthecinerna[willniove]into
a better, larger auditorium in the Commons,” meaning that the
Troubadour will no longer be used by the Washington and Lee
community. Wher1tlieComrnonsareready,“llieFilmSocietywill
be presenting its program in the new location next year,” accord-
‘ -ing to Senior Reference Librarian Dick Grefe, who is also the fac-
ulty advisor for the Film Society. While students feel an attach-
ment to the Troubadour Cinema, there is also the “occasional
rumor about the disposition of the Troubadour,” according to
Y Grefe,andFilmSocietyMemberMeredithHibbarrL Shealsonoted
thattheieareanumberofnioviesthatcannotbeplayedatthe
Troubadour due to a lack of technology. The new cinema in the
Coirirnonswil1beequippedtoplayallrecerItldridsofﬁlm,andtlius

the Film Society will be able to otfer a lager selection of movies.
' The fate of the Troubadour Cinema itselfremains rmclear.
Contos said that the University “will explore options with potential
off-campus users [of the cinema] once the Commons is complete.”

 

 

K\TlE l‘l0\W.Ll. / The Ring-tum Phi

this band and a Motown band in the Small Gym. Faculty, staff and students all attended
the 96th annual event. For more Fancy Dress pictures, see page 5. i '

ALWAYS SHAKIN’. Members of George Clinton’s band, The P.Funk All-Stars performed to
a packed audience Friday night in the Big Gym. Fancy Dress goers made their way between

SPEAKERS CAIDRE

Hughes, EC plan next year

' but avoid them like the plague. Watch

BY JEB BROOKS
PHOTO EDITOR

There is a plethora of vehicles among Wash-
ington and Lee University students. In fact, nearly
75% of students have a car, truck or a sport utility
vehicle on campus. A not—so—diﬂicult to avoid
roadblock in operating a motor-vehicle in Lexing-
ton is the omnipresent parking ticket. As Thomas
Jefferson once said, “Ignorance of the law is no
excuse.” The Ring-tum Phi hopes to dispel what
little ignorance there is on our most ﬁne of carn-
puses with this list of “ticketable” of-
fenses.

Parked in a restricted zone ——

’Parking tickets abound

vehicle is to be no more than six inches from the
curb. This ticket will not be a problem as long as
you are not parked in the street.

No parking — ﬁre hydrant — $25 .00. What
if there’s a fire?

Obstructing traﬂic — $25.00. Ifyour vehicle
is in some way blocking the free ﬂow of other cars,
this is the ticket you will receive. The citation is
distributed for such violations as double parking.

Expired license plates — $15.00. It does not
matter where your car is registered, if the plate is
expired, this is the ticket you will receive.

Expired / No inspection —
$10.00. This ticket is only for Virgin-
ians.

$15.00. This ticket may be distributed
to any vehicle not in an authorized
parking spot. Authorized parking
spots include, any curb not painted
yellow, any white box painted on the
street and any spot in a parking lot
not marked “reserved”

No parking — loading zone -
$l5.00. There are not many of these,

 

Expired/N0 city decal—$15.00.
This ticket is only for Lexingtonians.

Handicapped zone parking —
$100.00. Unless you have the neces-
sary paperwork, do not park in a handi-
capped space.

Sdayparking-$15.00. Itisnotper-
mitted for any individual to leave his or her
car parked in any city parking place (street

for signs that say “loading zone.”

Improper parking — $15 .00. According to
the Lexington Police Department this is the, “catch
all.” Ifthere is a sign that says not to do something
and you opt to do it, you will received this ticket.

Toodosetoanintersection———$15.00.Thisisa
problem only when there are no yellow curbs. Use
common sense; a driver should be able to see around

your vehicle to avoid acollision with oncoming tiaﬂic. -

Parkedfacingthewrongdirection——$l5.00.
Just remember to park with the ﬂow of traffic.
Blocking a driveway — $15.00. This one

needs no explanation.

Blocking the sidewalk — $15.00. A car
belongs on the street, not the sidewalk.
Parked too far from curb — $15.00. Your

SAMPLE TICKET

or lot) for more than ﬁve days.

Overtime parking — 10 minutes
— $15.00. This and the next ticket are the favorite
of students whose professors ramble. Do not
remain in a parking space for more than ten min-
utes, two hours or twelve hours (depending on
the space).

Overtime parking — 1 hour —‘ $15.00. If
one ticket isn’t enough, you will receive another.

There are even more citations you can re-
ceive while driving, but think when you park and
fewer students will receive parking tickets. The
police are not out to get students. The three
wheeled buggy-tliing targets Lexington residents,
students and professors alike. The driver does
not discriminate. The Ring-tum Phi wishes you
the best of luck in your parking pleasure.

I The R/rig-trrr/I Phi

_]F.B R(J0l\'S/ /Je Rirrg-//rm P
ENGLISH AND EATING. (Top) Iowa State Univ
professor Paul Griffiths deliveredanaddress titled,
"Moll Cut—Purse, Cross-Dressing, and the
Genderirig of Crime in Early Seventeenth
Century London." On Monday, March 10 Univ
of Hawaii professor Valerie \X/ayne will deliver a
talk called, "Shakespeare's Cyrnbeline, Colonialism
and the Ancient Britons." (Bottom) Caroline
Miller spoke on eating disorders as a part of
National Eating Disorders Awareness Week.

BY CALEY ANDERSON
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

Last week, students from both the law
and undergraduate campus voted on can-
didates for the offices of Executive Com-
mittee president, vice president and secre-
tary, as well as the offices of Student Judi-
cial Council chair and secretary.

The most talked-about election on cam-
pus was the vice presidential race featuring
Kevin White, current EC second-year lawEC
representative, and sophomore Phil
Walotsky. Walotsky promised radical reforms

to EC processes and the honor system,
whereas White subscribed to a more conser-
vative course. Both candidates conducted
an extensive campaign, appearing personally
near the polls on several occasions.

“‘I thought we were both pretty active
about it,” said White.

In the end, White was the one who
managed to win the office of vice president
by a margin of approximately 400 votes.

The closest race was that between Liz
Clarke and Cameron Lord for the office of

SEE EC, PAGE 2

Sexuality panel proves beneﬁcial

BY MEGAN MORGAN
SENIOR sT.III= WRITER

On Tuesday, March 2, the Washing-
ton & Lee Gay/Straight Alliance sponsored
a Sexuality Scholarship Panel, an event in
which professors spoke on various facets
of sexuality in our literature and culture.
The panel, which was rescheduled from
Feb. 27, was moderated by Professor Eric
Wilson of the English department and had
three guest speakers. These speakers in-
cluded Professor Theresa Braunschneider
of the English department, Professor Brian
Malone of the psychology department and
Professor Troy Prinkey of the Spanish de-
partment. Each speaker gave a 20 rriinute
lecture and then the ﬂoor was opened to
questions from the audience. Professor
Braunschneider spoke first, lecturing on
“Eighteenth Century Representation of
Gender and Sexuality” and particularly fo-
cusing on literature that dealt with women
that dressed as men. Then Professor Brian

Malone spoke on “The Effects of Anti-Gay
Hate Crimes on the Gay Community;” and
the seminar finished with Prof. Troy
Prinkey’s lecture on “Sexuality in Latin
American Literature.”

The event boasted a fairly large audi-
ence which included more than 40 stu-
dents, faculty members, law students and
VMI cadets, drawn out for a variety of
reasons. When one member of the audi-
ence was asked why he attended, fresh-
man Drew Davenport stated “I’m a mem-
ber of the Gay/Straight Alliance, so I tend
to go to all the events, and I have Profes-
sor Braunschneider. When I saw the no-
tices for it, what she was presenting and
what the other two professors were pre-
senting, it sounded interesting and I de-
cided to go.” Davenport, said it is also im-
portant to support the Gay/Straight Alli-
ance because “I’m very much in favor of
building an atmosphere of tolerance of ho-
mosexuality on campus, and I feel that
they are doing a good job of this.”

 

  

JAMES G. Ltsvnmw z..ia.a.»'r»*.:~’lr‘~.»’
wAsH«<r<aim<-4  arm: mr
r_..-i:.-..:=:=.‘r..".r~s.  we-31>

PAGE 2

MAR l 2 2003

Boetsch devotes life to W&L

BY IMRAN NAEEMULLAH
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

Those who have spent any significant period of time
at Washington and Leehave known Larry Boetsch in a
number of ways: as professor, as dean, and now as Pro-
vost. A 1969 graduate of W&L, Boetsch has devoted much
of his life to serving the University. 1

His involvement began in high school, when his AP
U.S. History teacher encouraged him to look at small lib-
eral arts colleges, and W&L ‘was one of the colleges he
recommended. Boetsch also had the opportunity of meet-
ing Joe Lyles of the Physical Education department when
Lyles visited Boetsch’s high school on a recruiting trip,
thus obtaining a more ﬁrst-hand perspective. Boetsch re-
calls that when he ﬁrst saw the school, he was captivated,
and knew that it was where he wanted to go.

Boetsch’s story is unique, however, in that neither of his
parents had attended college, and so even attending a state
university in Pennsylvania, where he grew up, would have
been a big step. He recalls thinking of Virginia as “so exotic
and faraway,” and Washington and Lee was like a dream
come true. He remembers his time at W&L as one of transi-
tion. He and his fellow ﬁeshmen were the ﬁrst class not forced
to wear the freshman beanie, a cap designating their ﬁrst-
year status, and other traditions like conventional dress also
went by the wayside during his undergraduate years. Boetsch
recalls that while such changes may not seem so noteworthy
now, at the time, they were hugely signiﬁcant.

Indeed, Boetsch remembers that those years of the
l960’s and early 1970’s were ones of profound cultural
change at W&L. He says that while student radicalism
was never as extreme asat other schools, W&L being
W&L, a certain attitude of deﬁance and clamoring for
change was in the air. Despite the changes, he says, hav-
ing observed the University continue to evolve over the
years, it remains essentially the same. The same basic
values of honor and civility still prevail, and the academ-
ics are still top—notch and teaching remains the highest
priority. He jokes that one of the biggest changes for him
is looking at the back of the campus, where new buildings
abound, like the University Commons, the Library, and
the renovated Science Center.

Boetsch’s current job, Provost, is a new position cre-
ated this year by President Burish—somethir1g he imported
with him from Vanderbilt—and it means that he is the Chief
Academic Ofﬁcer. He works with practically everyone on
campus, from students to faculty to University Comput-
ing. He says that it would be fair to characterize himself as
Burish’s “right-hand man,” implementing his agenda on a
day-to-day basis while Burish steers the helm. One of the
aspects of his job that he loves the most is the interaction
with students and faculty, and indeed, he even has the
opportunity to teach courses. For example, during Fall
Term, he taught an upper-level Spanish course on the
poet Antonio Machado. Of teaching, Boetsch says that it
is his true passion, and he is glad to have the opportunity
to partake in it even while serving as an administrator.

Boetsch’s vision for W&L is for it to continue along
its trajectory, retaining its core values of civility, integrity,
and learning, while also evolving to keep its mission rel-
evant. He identiﬁes two areas as being central to ensuring
this, one being the integration of what happens inside the
classroom and life outside of it, and the aforementioned
diversiﬁcation of the community. He stresses that the lat-
ter has really been a part of the University’s culture all
along, pointing out that right aﬁer the Civil War ended
and General Lee was named President, Lee went to the
North to recruit students, a move perhaps far more con-

troversial than any being made today. However, he is ada- A

mant that any such change in the student body must not
be one enforced by quotas, and that students who come
to Washington and Lee must want to attend because of
what it is, not in spite of what it is.

When he is not at work, Boetsch enjoys spending
time with his wife, Elizabeth, whom he met when he was a
student at W&L, and she was at Mary Baldwin. They live
in Lexington and raised two grown children, Lauren, a
student at Kenyon College, and Alden, who works in
Washington, D.C. Of his future plans, Boetsch remarks
that his goal is always to serve the University in a capac-
ity that best matches his talents and experience. Judging
by the breadth of his experiences thus far, this could per-
haps mean that the freshmen of the Class of 2010 will take
Spanish 161 with a Professor Boetsch, or perhaps Boetsch
will join the numerous other members of the Class of 1969
on the Board of Trustees. Or, just maybe, he’ll do both.

PLAYROOM, FROM PAGE 1

derstood it that way. We even had
drawings made.”

Complicating the matter was
that the Dean of Students Ofﬁce had
taken its current ofﬁce space from the
English department’s in the ‘70’s,
Warren said.

“Some of the older generation
said, ‘This was our building and they
took it from us,”’ Warren said.

Alter a recent meeting, however,
Burish and Dean of the College Tom
Williams told the department it would
not regain the area.

“There was some dismay among
the faculty, but not on my part,” War-
ren said. “It will be ﬁne if we get that
rectangle of space, along with adequate
offices for our four adjunct faculty.”

“The English department has a
well-demonstrated need for space in the
best conditions we can ﬁnd,” agreed
Williams, who suggested that room
could open up in Washington Hall.

Warren insisted that his depart-
ment and the administration remain on
cordial terms.

A small college’s rumor mill is to
blame for the gossip otherwise, he said.

“Colleagues in other departments,
by spreading rumors about things they

don’t know about, and that’s none of
their business, help make for misun-
derstanding,” Warren said.

The Donor: .

The Mason New Room is named
for the former Board of Trustee mem-

‘ ber who felt that the university presi-

dent needed more visibility.

New had talked to past presi-
dents Jack Wilson and John Elrod
about the issue, Farrar said.

After his death in 1996, Mary New
and White collaborated on a project to
memorialize him. They eventually
raised nearly half a million dollars.

“Elrod and (former Presidential
Assistant) Farris Hotchkiss were work-
ing on that immediately prior to
Elrod’s death,” Farrar said.

Dining the search for the new presi-
dent, the project was held in abeyance.

Following his assumption of au-
thority, Burish was immediately in-
formed of the plans

“After (Burish and I) began to
discuss to where (the room) should
go, he came up with the idea of put-
ting it where the Dean of Students Of-
ﬁce is,” Boetsch said. '

TheroomcouldbeopenbynextFall.

“The renovation will be triggered
by the completion of the University
Commons,” Farrar said.

NEW, FROM PAGE 1

Among other responsibilities, “(N ew) was
basically responsible for helping to raise over
$4 million each year,” Farrar said.

In May 1995, New was elected to the
Board of Trustees. He took the oath ﬁve
months later, and sat on the Board’s Develop-
ment and Budget and Audit Committees.

“His election capped off a lifetime of ser-
vice to the university,” Farrar said.

New died of cancer on Sept. 27, 1996, leav-
ing behind wife Mary Watt New and three chil-

dren, Mary Taylor ’98, John Mason ’96, and
Kreg Kurtz ’86.

“He was a wonderful W&L gentleman
who died far too young,” Cronin said.

New, former CEO of Branch, Cabell, and
Company, was heavily involved in national ﬁ-
nance. A member of the Board of Governors
of the National Association of Securities Deal-
ers, he also served on NASDAQ’s Qualiﬁca-
tions Committee and as treasurer of the Vir-
ginia Securities Industry Association.

New also sat on the Board of Governors
of St. Catherine’s and Christchurch Schools.

EC, FROM PAGE 1

SJC Secretary. The two ﬁnished close enough
to have a runoff, which was held last Wednes-
day, March 5. The final outcome gave the vic-
tory to Lord by a mere two votes, one of the
slimmest margins of any election in W&L his-
tory.

The other victors this year were Helen
Hughes, who ran unopposed for the ofﬁce of
EC President, Anne Johansen, who won the
ofﬁce of EC Secretary, and Mike Baker will be
the new SJ C Chair.

_President-elect Hughes says she’ll be
keeping to the course followed by outgoing
President Gerald Titus. “I plan to finish up the
impressive things [Titus] has started, such as
making the committee more focused on stu-
dent government issues in addition to honor
matters,” said Hughes.

I willibe working closely with the admin-
istration in restructuring the freshmen and new
faculty orientation programs. I want to stress
the privileges of our Honor System and instill
a sense of pride in all W&L students,” she
added.

As vice president, Kevin White’s primary
focus will be budgetary issues. “My ﬁrst prior-
ity is to continue the work of the EC in improving
our budget policies and procedures. We need
to ensure that every organization that requests
funding ﬁom the EC is giving an honest assess-
ment of the ﬁmding thatthey need,” he said. He
went on to note that another of his goals would
be keeping closer watch over howorganizations
spent their EC funds. He also thanked his oppo-
nent, Phil Walotsky, for a “a very interesting and
issue-oriented election.”

The newly elected ofﬁcers will take their
positions in Spring term.

MONDAY, MARCH 10, 2003

‘ail news briefs to

 

Nick Teare will speak

Nick Teare, an advertising executive who has handled
accounts for the National Football Leagie and Coca—Cola,
will discuss the role of advertising in today’s society at
Washington and Lee University on Thursday, March 13,
at 7:30 pm. in Northen Auditorium.

National theatre symposium approaches

Washington and Lee University will host the Sixth
National Symposium on Theater in Academe from March
13-15.

The Symposium will feature performances from the
College of William and Mary, the University of Massa-
chusetts at Dartmouth and the University of Minnesota
at Twin Cities, as well as several performances by W&L
students. The University of Tunis at Manouba will add an
international ﬂavor to the symposium with the university’s
Moncef Khemiri’s performance of “Theater of the
Maghreb, the Poetics of Gestures.”

Law alumnus to become
president of Nation ’s top legal group

, Robert J .Grey Jr., a 1976 alumnus of Washington and
Lee University’s School of Law and a highly regarded
Richmond attorney, has been nominated without opposi-
tion to become president-elect of the American Bar Asso-
ciation, the largest voluntary professional group in the
world representing practicing and academic attorneys na-
tionwide.

Following ‘an oﬁicial vote on his nomination in Au-
gust by the ABA’s House of Delegates, Grey will immedi-
ately assume his one-year position as president-elect. In
mid-2004, Grey will proceed to the presidency of the
410,000-member group, ABA officials said.

Law school will host Medicare symposium

The Great Society vision that birthed Medicare has
dimmed. The free market approach that inspired Medicare
Choice has lost luster. As Congress prepares to take up
President Bush’s Medicare proposals, what is ahead for
Medicare?

The nation’s top experts in Medicare politics, policy,
law and economics are gathering at Washington and Lee
University’s School of Law on March 24 to examine the
issues faced by the country’s largest health care program,
which covers 40 million aging» and disabled Americans.

GalaeventwillrevealunsungGeneralollheyear

The Celebrating Student Success Initiative sponsored by
the Dean of Students oﬂice is holding a gala event on March 27 at
7:00 pm in Lee Chapel to honor the “un-sung heroes” ofWash-
ington and Lee. During the months of October, November, Janu-
ary and Febniary, the Initiative recognized students who bring
both depth and breadth to Washington and  One of these
students will receive the award All are invited to the gala event.

 

Vtsrr Us D'I.§RlN~t.3
l’Rt}:V'iE.t?€? WEEs:ENu
Area SF..P; 

 r Urxrnrraasnr
Is Otstléi OF The.
F.A.‘?i*tEZS7T--GR{)X5?'I‘P2{§
Gaarirrrrrrz Stzrioots
IN “tit-IE Wurrtrr.

 



P A $'E3-5 R.£3:r;§;.5:a_'raA:rrr;;r2~r P.At;:mr_;r::; rfP1.é:rr
I-=i:~:s.sr:;r:~.r) Irer:::1.i,:r:tr>:s A Lrr;;-trr R3-.33.
(M "I‘r»a1..é t2§;t’}.~t‘r‘ ‘hlrrzrlrr; 'L.lT‘mr.1;‘:i-ta l‘ei1»r..r..r..s
(be E?'ir1rr..~w, Btu tszrsrsr (.};N S..arruar:m:*
Arts) L(7}lT)(§iI§}xE€§ ‘l"*V:r’rr Trirsrcsrm-* A?-t1”;t
Farrrxsf l"~§.tv;f-.:t~r.*r*.:‘f~:s Cm {:.AAai=u:s A’-Yr

Tam Ftrczremrams law.

- A $59 P.rr:r:_.Ae‘::;r: 12er::rr:a::s>::%: (.:tf’j1-2.4-«E'I??".t:j%:3I.'lE't*~}at"‘,?tIi+;
Area l.\rIrr...:~r..1..:“a. Wrirzr 7if~’.tt::rjI,r:r1::»<:f.rarr:;=.

TRANSPQRTATIQTN:

Tim £i2»rir*r:»:§tsrrf'r"°:s f;i)E..??~i"E)l'iR$ .I:x:'z-a

 

I\/[ARCH 1 3-1 5, 2003

   

]l..f?:~E.I(.3RS 8:: 5.133%
‘P'r'.r«::;:s~.=

  

+-Ate ’l..=“{t‘Et;T)l’?-3
+j<'a.3:Im.=ir..rs.si

.Lr;.>£::.>:r.15'}:<:r) (M {:..~m:rix.;%s \X}’1:r.r... (f§'r...=r.1‘:«r;r

I’mJv1r?:r?; .B;r)tzNn “liar? Srrr.2rr.:..r3; .’$ts:r.nrrr:::r:

Ftfrﬂ ‘r"?r.:ru Flttiilltrii It-ilrgi.-riF:r‘::rr..r»:. ‘Z.r~a'rt:zirr»:.i°rir::»>A:.Ar.

A1 rmrur, rm, Ttttéi, .l‘\l—(j3|Ri»=t.3t..1_~§. (31z..ri~:rrrfr—«-1t..’:r1.sr~:3.r

Bus TE%Rl&ithE:t[..

 

 OF  & 

MEET  S’i'UDEN'I‘S,. FACULTY Ann  F srons STAFF
AND Tour. Tim  MEDIA AND PERFORMING ARTS CENIEE
  

EK  ¥.1:‘-31..T‘._!.£.
C}a.mL::.«r;’r1-ii Dr-rzrsm-.

’{LZr'?r’A§:~..i:‘r.:‘§o'1rj::A*r'rr:r«.*xz' Arrriiz
-ofrv::r_..r:.*rr:<;rr:r‘z-s'
-+Frr..r».i

—+Cr:ar2»r.t;:;~r1t':..A.rrcites: Sr-'L:r:»1

Carts  Form
Or MEDIA EDocArroN Its A”
Cmusmu Ervmouuarr.

  
{N ”l.”’§~‘l.l{~Z

 
 

    

 

 

31$} Kt”f3E~z‘=‘A=’§ ¥}T!:*ail‘rlEI€i.7>fl‘Y‘  ¥’l?§§%é%A W.;*£T!*i. "I3.-’i.s 

'757.225.rtﬂl?8 ' Fm; ?".5?.226.tl(}39

Em-ail: prev*iew@*

regent.-euziu.

rarrvre::regerrt.erirripreview

.-..-.—..»»\. ..._,_.'c

 

Y .

  

~ Bran T. KIRWAN

OPINIONS EDHOR
§ FJuAr1;uRwANB@wiun1r
 MONDAY, MARCH 10, 2003

Si§hBi3liii}liJDlTORIAL

Frats, pledges: step up the creativity

Washington and Lee has long been re-
nowned for its notorious Greek system.
W&L’s fraternity pranks have long rivaled
those of larger chapters. Impressive percent-
ages of both men and women claim part of

- this infamous system. These facts are why
we at The Phi are highly discouraged by this
year’s lack of creativity in fraternity
pledgeship. Where are the days gone by of
crazy pledge pranks? (Read: Kidnapping Phi
Opinions editors is not “crazy” or “fun.”) We
realize that the University and state have
cracked down on hazing, but this should not,
however, ruin the “fun” of fraternity
pledgeship for the entire University commu-
nity. Pledges, fraternities, get on the ball. Step
up the creativity. The Phi suggests these
“Hell Week” activities:

-Elevator operators in the science center,
library, C-school and J-school.

-Cummerbund- and bow tie-clad waiters
in the Coop and Laetitia Pate D-Hall.

-Valet parking service in the parking
garage, (available, of course, only at the
proper entrance at the lower level of the
garage.)

-Water boys during gym and yoga classes
and in the weight room.

—Traff1c control on the Colonnade, complete
with traffic safety vests (Yes, the orange ones).

-Following certain administrators and stu-
dent “leaders” around with pooper-scoopers.

-Srat row serenades (Appropriate songs
and times only, please).

-A rickshaw service from Davidson Park
to the Hill.

-A laundry sorting, washing and folding
service in the on-campus laundering facilities.

-Establish a “TNK” SWAT team on the Hill.

—Wal-Mart-type greeters at the entrance
of each academic building, complete with
smiley-faced vests.

-Provide a 24/7 shuttle to LeeHi and WaHo.

-A task force to deﬁne the word “Provost.”

Pledgeship "is almost over; Thiscan be a week
of service rather than a week of such “tradi-
tions” as sleep deprivation, lineups, tunneling,
beatings and consumption of excessive amounts
of alcohol. Make the last week a memorable
one for the entire community.

 

“God, we need more Mississippi Studies on

thisunerrlightened campus.”
~Karl Kuersteiner ‘03
in March 4 campus notices

Founder J. Sam Slicer, 1898L
Editor in chief Katie J. Howell
Opinions Editor BrettT.Kirwan
Arts & Life Editor Catherine C. Guy
Photo Editor Jeb Brooks
Sports Editor Erin Julius
Asst. News Editor CaleyAnderson
Photographers Tallie Jamison

Copy Editor Donny Banks

Business Manager A Paul Seifert
Asst. Business Manager Thomas Worthy
Circulation Director Henry Grimball
Advertising Assistant McQueen Calvert

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor in chief, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and colunms do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

THE RING-TUM Par

PINIONS

Kick Kaptur out of Congress

Let it never be said that the war
on terror hasn’t clariﬁed the positions
of both the leﬁ and the right. Since
real life and death issues have over-
taken prescription drugs and school
lunches in the national debate, politi-
cians are no longer able to hide be-
hind loﬁy platitudes and clever pars-
ing when debating our nation’s future.
Unfortrmately for some members of
Congress, this new clarity will seri-
ously hinder their ability to be re-
elected.

The most recent liberal to expose
her contempt for America and com-
plete misunderstanding of our
nation’s history is Rep. Marcy Kaptur,
D-Ohio, who last Saturday told the
Toledo Blade, “One could say that
Osama bin Laden and these non-na-
tion-state ﬁghters with religious pur-
pose are very similar to those kind of
atypical revolutionaries that helped to
cast off the British crown.” To recap,
she lumps George Washington, Tho-
mas Jefferson and John Hancock in
with Osama bin Laden and Khalid
Shaikh Mohammed. Unbelievable
that an elected representative equates
slamming planes into the World Trade
Center with dumping tea into Boston
Harbor, isn’t it?

Granted, Kaptur claims that she
was only trying to highlight the roots
of revolution. Both the American revo-
lutionaries and al-Qaeda are trying to
bring down a great power. But where
does one start with the differences?
American revolutionaries had been
systematically oppressed and abused
and fought nobly, avoiding civilian
casualties. Al-Qaeda seeks to subdue
the world under Sharia law and ex-
pressly targets civilians.

What’s even more cringe-
inducingly stupid is that Kaptur de-
fends her comments as only discuss-
ing “the nature of revolution.” What
revolution is that again, Marcy? Do
you mean the one in which honor-
bound gentlemen fought for freedom
of religion and liberty or the one in
which fanatic barbarians kill all who

, oppose Islam? To label al-Qaeda’s

senseless terrorisrii as a “revolution”

is to give their fanaticism and medi-,

eval morality too much credit.

Moreover, Kaptur is glad that all
the attention given to her idiotic com-
ments has brought national recogni-
tion to her anti-war
stance. That is, given
the opportunity to re-
cant and apologize
for slandering the
memory of our Founding Fathers,
Kaptur thrusts her head even deeper
into the sand.

So, what to do with a member of
Congress so recalcitrant and willfully
ignorant of our traditions of liberty
and noble national purpose? Speaker
Hastert said only that “maybe Marcy
misspoke.” But she refuses to accept
this easy and logical exit from infamy.

  
 

Letters to the Editor

iiii’iirr”¢A‘{i5r:i‘r;rr§iiAigtr;i‘i
 ‘O4 one so inimical to the

PHoT<><.>t,RTE.r W\VW. ousegor kaptur

WHOOPS. Congressman Kaptur receives the Veterans of Foreign War’s Americanisrn
Award. I’ll bet those courageous veterans wish they could take it back.

Since Kaptur intends to persist
in willfully defaming our history and

our forebears,’ shouldiisomeone so '2

clearly sympathetic to our country’s
sworn enemies be allowed to remain
in Congress? With every word she
speaks in their favor, al-Qaeda is
granted legitimacy and our defen-
sive war against
them seriously hin-
dered. Should some-
H T " interests of this na-
tion and so sand-poundingly
clueless about the purposes of our
enemies be given such an elevated
post from which to spout her brain-
less bile? Most importantly, should
the people of Toledo be forced to
endure nearly two more years with
a representative who is more inter-
ested in helping al-Qaeda than her
constituents? Certainly, not.

Sadly, the possibility that a
woman already so senseless will hon-

5 forablylresign her post is.small. There-A -

fore, all freedom-loving Americans
who have any appreciation for the
sacriﬁces our forefathers made in de-
fense of our ﬂedgling nation’s high
ideals must join with the so poorly
represented Toledans and call for the
ouster of Rep. Kaptur. Write, call, fax
and e-mail your representative to tell
him that you are ashamed he shares
the chamber with such a woman.

Free speech is an ideal we trea-
sure above all others, but Kaptur’s ig-
norant comments go so far beyond
reason as to be treasonous and unbe-
coming of a member of Congress. We
cannot win the war on terror if brought
down internally. We’ve kicked the
Taliban out of Afghanistan and we’ll
soon kick Saddam out of Iraq; it’s time
to kick Kaptur out of Congress.

PAGE 3

Blacks not barred
from frat parties

In the Feb. 5 Trident, Kaela Harmon (“Student raises
question of fraternity party admission”) mentions an
incident at a fraternity party, where she was asked to
show ID before admission. I must respectfully disagree
with her position that race played a signiﬁcant role. Fur-
thermore, I disagree with many of her arguments and
believe these differences merit discussion.

I am not familiar with any policies that make it dif-
ﬁcult for minority students to go out and have a good
time, even at the fraternities. There are no rules limiting
minorities getting
into fraternity par-
ties, and no frater-
nity has ever denied
this author admis-
sion to any party. Freshman year, I was asked some
questions that, in retrospect, may have been an at-
tempt to ascertain whether or not I was a Washington
and Lee student. However, interpreting it as someone
attempting to make conversation, I answered and went
on my way when he was ﬁnished asking who my advi-
sor was.

Although the number of minority (and black) stu-
dents on this campus is rather small, the point of a
college education is to expand the boundaries of your
experiences. All students should take advantage of
opportunities to interact with others in as many differ-
ent situations as possible, without becoming uncom-
fortable. This is one of the reasons why one should
choose to attend a top-ﬂight school, like Washington
and Lee. Interactions with other intelligent individuals
make the experience invaluable before a graduate takes
the University’s message to her chosen profession.
Parties can be an extension of this, as they allow di-
verse people to meet and have fun in a social setting.
Students should avoid conﬁning their social lives to
one group, as it cheats them out of a full college expe-
rience.

It is also beneﬁcial and positive to establish a so-
cial group with those of a similar culture. Many minor-
ity students end up sitting together at lunch and es-
tablishing positive social groups. The dormitory coun-
selors and resident assistants establish a social group
that allows them to be more effective as a team. Some
minority students and majority students may decide to
join the Greek system to ﬁnd a social group. I do not
think that this makes these people “gods or goddesses,”
who think that they are better than anyone else nor
does this cause them to consciously place “hoops” in
place for minorities. It simply means that these people
have chosen to join an organization that has a social
aspect to it. I ' " ' ' "

Honestly, sometimes it is diﬁicult to ensure that
every person at a party is a Washington and Lee stu-
dent. But, there is no reason to believe that rules are
enforced completely arbitrarily. This Saturday, in fact,
security at a party denied admission to three VMI ca-
dets who were white and wearing khakis and Polos. Thus,
Harmon’s comment that she would have been treated
differently if white, blonde and accompanied by white
guys in khakis is based on whimsical conjecture rather
than demonstrated fact. Furthermore, as a fraternity mem-
ber, the social aspect of our organization is designed (to
me) to meet and enjoy the company of members of this
community. After having paid social dues, I do not see a
discriminatory facet to a policy that gives Greek organi-
zations the right to reserve social events to members of
this community. I can understand (all too well) Harmon’s
argument that many available dates come from other
schools. But, I also understand that there are plenty of
interesting and attractive individuals that attend schdol
here to meet at social ﬁrnctions.


ONATHAN WORTHAM ‘O4

 

Laundry room escape from outdoors

Dear Editor,

I was shocked to read an article (Ashley Metzloff,
“W&L needs code of behavior for laundry room,” F eb.
10) that cast the laundry room in such a poor light. The
article misinterpreted the laundry room as myself and many
of my peers view it.

It is not a battleﬁeld full of ﬂying laundry and
angry launderers. During these cold winter months,
the laundry room provides an oasis from the bleak
outdoors. When I enter the laundry room, I am taken
to a sunny beach and am holding a boat drink in one
hand.

The jock straps are there for the sunbathers coming
to escape the snow and ice, not for girls to foolishly
giggle at. We just slip on a good old jock, take a seat and
wait for our clothes to dry.

This attitude solves the supposed dilemma of laun-
dry etiquette. So I invite Metzloff to loosen up and take a

trip to the beach. Get over the pride you have for your
own laundry and kick back with us.

Sincerely,

John Howard ‘06

Laundry room etiquette not a problem _

Dear Editor,

I don’t know about the rest of the freshman class but
I, personally, have a rather hectic schedule. In an ideal
world, I would prefer not to wait for “three consecutive
days” to wash my clothes. So what if I choose to idealize
my situation and remove wet clothes from a ﬁnished
washer or dryer? Why should I have to sit around, twiddle
my thumbs, and play with my hair while waiting anxiously
for that certain someone to take his own sweet time to
waltz down the laundry room stairs and claim his belong-
ings?

When I was but a Summer Scholar one and half years
ago, my mother said to me, “Now, Lyndsay, dear, laundry

room etiquette allows you to remove others’ clothes when
their time is up.” Note: she did not say, “Throw them in
their crumpled state into a ﬁlthy comer.” Note: she did not
say, “Evenly distribute them about the room: a sock here,
a hoodie there.” She simply wanted me to assert my own
natural right to a washing machine—is that too much to
ask, Ashley Metzloff? I apologize if my “shameful” acts
have offended you in any way, but I’ve only been follow-
ing Mommy’s orders!

Here’s my solution to the “problem” that I hope will
make everyone happy: 1) stick your laundry basket on top
of your washer and, if you’re running late, it can serve as
a handy place to stow your wet stuff because not only
does it keep it all together it also keeps it off the ground; 2)
wrap the cord of a laundry bag around the handle of your
dryer of choice so, if you’re again running late, your fel-
low laundry—doers can have a simple way to bundle up
your things. That certainly is not too much to ask!
Sincerely,

Lyndsay Polloway ‘06

 

 

  

 

  

“D 

 

‘ chang

 

“Draper urma g on “I saw s g di ulous, .. . ,, y
the checked coats ” but I can’t remember” Fancy dresses and ﬂlp ﬂOpS' Asher Simcoe ” that guy’s diaper ”
_“,,5,.y F,,=,,,,S 40,5 pp...,.‘. 7 _;g;‘,, ‘M -Alexa Moutevelrs 06 . —.‘»mM  ~— ~ ‘M —.lc»r-2! ‘F’ 1*. .-‘rs. ‘O4.

 

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 10, 2003

Gays not
condemned

LEFT or CENTER
NICK RAMSEY ‘O3

Sadly, these days religion is
all too often used to promote in-
tolerance. For whatever reason,
the Washington and Lee campus
has been at the center of one par-
ticular issue that often polarizes
the religious world. Words have
been exchanged between indi-
vidual students, alumni, and stu-
dent organizations. Meanwhile, the
school’s administration has
stayed strangely quiet during all
this. Of course, I am referring to
the issue of homosexuality.

The week before February
break someone littered the wind-
shields of cars on public streets
and in the Washington and Lee
parking garage with a pamphlet
entitled “What the Bible Really
Says About Homosexuality.” While
this type of behavior reeks of the
tactics used by a particular alum, I
have no grounds to accuse this in-
dividual of such. _

The pamphlet was authored
by “Pastor” Ralph Ovadal and
comes from a group calling them-
selves Wisconsin Christians
United.

The first thing that strikes me
about this is the word “United” ap-
pearing in the group’s title. This
hateful piece of garbage is one of
the most divisive, least Christian
things I have ever read.

I am sure many merely threw it
to the ground or in the trash, but I
took the time to read this entire
leaﬂet from beginning to end. I will
say nothing of the different mean-
ings and translations of biblical
verses used in the pamphlet and
the arguments that can be made
against them. The last time I did
so it merely spawnedan editorial
tennis match between myself and
a freshman whose views are
slightly different than mine.

However, by the mere fact that
this dialogue debating the mean-
ings behind such biblical pas-
sages can occur proves my point.
The Bible is a book that one must
interpret and come to a personal
understanding with. It should not
be something used to broadcast a
one-sided interpretation that
merely condemns a group of
people.

Onto another point, the arro-
gance of this document truly
amazes me. To illustrate this point,
I shall use the document’s very
words. “It may be popular in
today’s culture to defend and pro-
mote sexual perversion in the name
of ‘tolerance’ and ‘diversity’; but
the truth is, _God hates such (ho-
mosexual) acts and judges them
severely.”

Apparently, “Pastor” Ovadal
has a direct pipeline to God that
tells him exactly what the Almighty
hates and how he will judge people.

Using a book written hun-
dreds of years after the time of
Christ and trusting the complete
word for word content just makes
no sense to me.

There exists in the Bible a story
of one of the greatest sacrifices
ever recorded. A sacrifice that was
made by an omnipotent Creator for
the love of those He created. How
then do those that claim to be a fol-
lower of the religion created from
this one act of love defend their
hatred of others? I am truly at a loss
to answer this question.

The objective of organized re-
ligion should be to introduce oth-
ers to this pure love that is ready
for the taking. It should introduce
others to the promise of unending
life. It should be about showing
others how to love themselves and
others with the kind of love that
God gives to us.

Perhaps even more importantly,
it should be about learning to love
and accept others for who they are
and sharing all these things with
them, rather than using a debatable
point to shun and condemn.

You often hear in the news
these days commentary on the dif-
ferences among people of the Is-
lamic faith. Some are peaceful, won-
derful people. Others ﬂy airplanes
into buildings in the name of Allah.

The Islamic faith is not alone
in having those that have been
misguided by their faith.

 

OR1NioNs I

    

France, Germany lead Euro-weenies in opposing warfor selfish reasons

“Going to war without France is like going deer hunting
without your accordion,” Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld
recently said. “All you leave behind is a bunch of noisy bag-
gage.”

Rumsfeld’s candor during the Iraq crisis has been so frank
that I would not be surprised to learn that the State Department
had established a Rumsfeld Rapid Response unit. Such an elite
team would leap to duty at the ﬁrst sign of frankness, and be
quick to soothe our fair-

 

 "  weather allies’ easily rufﬂed
" feathers. For example, if the
OHN   Secretary calls them the “Axis

of Weasels” because they
refuse to comply with the auspices of NATO, the RR unit
would quickly translate that into diplomatic parlance (read: non-
confrontational gibberish).

The problem with this scenario is a matter of ﬁmdamental
principle. The question should not be whether or not Rumsfeld
has gone overboard with his headline-grabbing analysis, but
why the U.S. should allow its interests to be held hostage by
Euro-elites like Germany and France. This tension is not new.
Former French President Charles deGaulle once remarked, “You
may be sure that the Americans will commit all the stupidities
they can think of, plus some that are beyond imagination.”

This new opposition to the war, partly born out of the Viet-
nam-era doves and the noveau—chic anti-Americanism, is stulti-
fying and eerily reminiscent of past sins.

The French and Germans are both loudly opposed to ac-
tion against Iraq, but for different reasons. For France, the equa-

is

Pl-l()T(> (iOL'RTESY q//Ii‘ lit? /11’ em

 
   

£0/II mmyp tux/2/5 1 ).)lm

COWARD (above). Schumer,
a fan of shooting down
Bush’s '
especially afraid of a
conservative Hispanic

nominees, is

judge.

GIPPED (left). Miguel

Estrada deserves to be

Voted upon in the Senate.
PHOTO Cl WRTESY \V'Vv'WICXﬂS\'lCl(JIy.()[g

 

 

Ring—tum Phi,
Stickeri—bum!
We are the stuff
from Lexington!

FOUNDER
]. SAM SLICER, JR.

1898L

   

 
   

Fumﬁmislng; dsxttrs are filing qixlrlﬂy. (‘art with: the pwiwatm lime v.«r>ri:_‘l

Yrlrtr‘ Tr:l.1'l-W547 Xnrtnﬁe _;J.'i:.1r (7r)i§e:g'er .i"'wm!ra'é.tJrz,gr.

838'-923--3238 - wv:w.campusf‘undraiserzcom

APARTMENTS Illl lllllill: ,
close to lexinglon. heautilul condition.
notches lacing river. one large l$425lmo.l

two small I$3z'.iImo.l. law or umlerorarl.

l0I' next lrear. 540-377-2980.
nt:whhw@nteIosnol

 

PHOTO COURTESY perm. r/ub-irztemetfr
AXIS OF WEASELS. French President Chirac, left, and German
Chancellor Schroeder have been united in their opposition to a war
against Saddam. Most other European nations support the U.S.

tion appears to be simple: one of France’s biggest companies,
oil conglomerate TotalFinaElf, is currently negotiating to extract
some of Iraq’s oil reserves. One assumes that bombing Iraq
back to the stone age would not appear to be a sign of French

goodwill. The French should know, because, they’ve been
burned before. TotalFinaElf had secured rights to exploit one
Iraqi oil ﬁeld that was expected to produce 30 million barrels; the
Iraqi regime quashed that deal in 2001 because of France’s con-
tinuing support of UN sanctions.

In the Fatherland, Gerhard Schroder seized on anti-war sen-
timent to save his precariously perched Chancellorship: in Oc-
tober of 2002, Schroder, headed for defeat in the upcoming elec-
tions, loudly proclaimed his govemment’s opposition to any
war in Iraq, with or without UN support. Largely because of this
issue, Schroder defeated—by »a hair’s breadth—~his conserva-
tive opponent.

The German people agree with Schroder. While
France’s opposition may be rooted in elitism and economic
interests, Germany’s opposition is rooted in history. Still
wracked with guilt over the “starring role” in World Wars
I and II, the Germans are now, despite the Teutonic stereo-
types, frantically pacifist. They desperately cling to
Santayana’s cliche that “those who forget the past are
condemned to repeat it.”

The ironic twist, however, is that their top-speed sprint
away from their past has led them to run head long into another
dark chapter in European history.

Schroder, Chirac, and others have become the Neville Cham-
berlains of the present. In an era where weaponry has replaced
land as the primary chit of international hardball, refusing to
enforce Iraqi demilitarization equates to letting Germany re-con-
quer the Rhineland. Let’s hope America maintains the moral
courage to refrain from following suit.

oward of the Week

An irregular feature of the Rjr2g—i'zm P/22' Opinions section

PAGE 4

  

Senator Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y.

rity, budgetary and military issues) be- 

He is a senior member of the Senate
J udicary who has broken a precedents
and unapologetically politicized the pro-
cess of confirming the president’s nomi-
nees. He initiated a ﬁlibuster to prevent a
vote on the confirmation of Miguel
Estrada to the DC. Circuit Court of Ap-
peals. For being afraid to vote on the nomi-
nation—because he knows he’ll lose—
Sen. Chuck Schumer, Democrat from New
York is this week’s Coward of the Week.

Miguel Estrada immgrated from Hon-
duras when he was seventeen not know-
ing a word of English. By nineteen, he had
mastered English enough to be admitted
to Columbia. He continued his education
at Harvard Law School where he was the
editor of the Harvard Law Review.

He earned a unanimous well-
qaulified rating from the American Bar
Association and served under Solicitor
General Seth Waxman during the Clinton
Administration. He has argued 15 cases
before the Supreme Court, l0 of which
were decided in his favor. He is over-
whelmingly supported by the Hispanic
community; his only opponents are lib-
eral Hispanic activist organizations with
miniscule memberships. One can hardly
imagine a better example of the American
Dream.

There are at least 55 senators who
wish to see Estrada confirmed, but
Schumer is leading a ﬁlibuster to prevent
(while at the same time preventing the
Senate from addressing important secu-

cause he is beholden to liberal activist 

organizations that wish to remake the fed- "1
eral bench so that America can be refonned 

through ligitation.

In essence, Schumer is holding Presi- 

dent Bush and the Senate to an impos- 
sible super-majority standard, demading 7.
that 60 votes, the number required to end 
a ﬁlibuster, be cast in favor of a judicial 4‘

nominee. Schumer is unwilling to accept

the results of the 2000 election which ,

gave President Bush the power to make
appointments and the 2002 elections
which gave the GOP control of the Sen-
ate. He ought to face his fear of another
strict-constructionist judge on the federal
bench and allow a vote on Miguel Estrada.

. rug 3? $15, i:5a§.i‘ M1id;ri3.i Shaw}? 5 E95;

 Fnmrirajskrg  emlatric-. No»  Ne rxtrlfbes. Just rearranges?

lNSPiRE[l BY  RODS, SW5 MD DARWIN.

I

 

Seats fire, has 53 cubic
feet of cargo space. and
is available with 188 hp
and a B-speed manual
shift. Even evolution
can’: fully explain it.
saw T@‘.tCrIé%t8TrI)E$!éE’3, Lliilakllflit ﬁwlﬁl

l'%Ti.E.      
Es”   .l'rCTL|r:L%‘J..Eli Fliﬁlall§‘l".I3rll't..

 

4
N
BOUTIQUE t

 

Winter Madness Sale
567367’ 7OH1/3’ox/ juicy Couiiurex

M71?

8 C B G ii»-ii .«’3’s.}{ .e‘5"»xEf. Q ixik  \-
“CHANGING CHARLOTTESVILLE ONE DRESS AT A Tl.ME” 
107 Elliewood Ave. On the UVA Comer 245-2217 ' _

I1. ‘‘—.'‘‘‘‘l.- I I‘I—IU..t|‘-I R.

DIXIE DIVAS

Vt

 

   

CIIIIERINE C. GLY
I ARTS&l.lFE EDITOR
A E1\llH;GL"Y(‘@\l<lL'.El)L‘

V Mom, MARCH 10, 2003 

 

H PAGE 5

 

l\\Tll H0\X'EI,l._/ The Ring-P/J1
READY To ROCK! George Clinton and his band pull up to the gym in their buses and vans in order to set up for their performance.

_ K.\'['IE H<)\vEI.I,/ T/JP R1’:/(g-/Im P/21'
SOME ENCHANTED EVENING. A couple dances together to
George Clinton’s band, enjoying the Fancy Dress atmosphere.

    

   
   

K. IE ( ./ /J2Ig—///1/’z'
FROM LEXINGTON WITH LOVE. James Bond’s glittering opponents line the stairs leading to the Warner Center, welcoming partygoers. The lovely and creative decorations
were painstakingly conceptualized and created by this year’s Fancy Dress Stearing Committee, whose members have spent countless hours all year planning this year’s ball.

'1 EB BRO()K.\‘/ T/2:» Ring-tzrm P/Ii
STAGE STRUCK. The stage in the small gym anxiously awaits the arrival of its hand.

l\'.\ I II ll( >\I ,I./ TH fig-/I021 1’/J1’
N’ LET US IN! Fancy Dress partygoes line up on the gym stairs in order to get into the ball.

l\'\'I IE. H0\\ ELL T/J6’ R1'n(g—t/my P/22' V V KYLE MEEH.\N/ T/Jt’ Ring-rm Pb:
GET DOWN TONIGHT! Diaper man wows the crowd as a result of both his music and eccentric manner of dressing. ALL SHE WANTS TO DO IS DANCE. A couple admires the Fancy Dress decor while danceing together.

I,

 

IZAGE6

 8: LIFE

 

Singing in perfect harmony

THE ENTERTAINMENT OF ROYALTY: The British—based all male
a mppe//a group, “The King’s Singers” perforned for a crowd

Southern Comfort: you’ve got some competition. A
few weeks ago, the W&L Concert Guild presented the
world—renowned men’s a cappella group, “The King’s
Singers.” Their diverse program ranged from French
Renaissance music to “Rakastava, Op. l4” by Jean
Sibelius to Beach Boys, while their
light—hearted spirit and English
accents enchanted the audience. I am
certain that everyone left Lenfest
Center that snowy Tuesday night
with warm hearts and smiles on their
faces.

Singing extremely complicated

pieces within a wide range of repertoire, I was personally
amazed at how ﬂawlessly their voicesrblended together.
One moment all six singers would be singing a different
note, on a different end of the scale, seeming almost like a
different song and melody completely, and the next moment
— perfect harmony.
During each piece, each singer
seemed to represent a different
instrument, as though they were the
representation of an entire orchestra!
How each remained focused on his
particular part, I am bewildered. Their
group was composed of two
countertenors, a tenor, two baritones,
and a bass. Their music surpassed
any a cappella group I had ever
heard, and as their individual resumes
portrayed, each King’s member was
born to sing.

As their voices ' blended and I
listened to the piece as a whole, they were
able to completely create the image of the
music, representing in a phenomenal way the meaning of
the piece. In “Scenes in America Deserta,” for example,
their voices alone portrayed the ‘silence, heat, and light,’
the coloristic features, and the ‘human element’ of the
pueblo frescoes. How they were able to represent these
desert characteristics, I do not know — and I cannot
explain any ﬁirther the profound effect their voices had
upon the audience. If you were there, you know. If you
were not there, let me just tell you that after the piece

 
 

  
 ..14URI1£I9tIBIIIIItiL03

THEIR LIGHT-HEARTED
SPIRIT AND ENGLISH
ACCENTS ENCHANTED
THE AUDIENCE. I AM
CERTAIN THAT
EVERYONE LEFT
LENFEST CENTER THAT
SNOWY TUESDAY NIGHT
WITH WARM HEARTS
AND SMILES ON THEIR
FACES.

W . I‘ . 1
at Lenfest last week. Their diverse repertoire and witty banter
entertained those who braved the elements to see the show.

ended and during intermission, the line for the water
fountain was out the door!

Also, I would like to mention how incredibly long
they sang — and without any water, for that matter. The
“Scenes in America Deserta” itself was a continuous 14
minute song. And they sang with such ease and liveliness
— no problem, eh? I wonder.how long
they practice. . . 9

Finally, I cannot end the
article without a word on their
personalities. The liveliness of their
character made the concert more
relaxed, placing the audience more
at ease. They were having fun — always smiling and
chuckling, adding wry remarks here and there. As they
sang love songs from the French Renaissance, they
made playful faces and comical gestures, always making
the audience laugh — especially the song “There’s a
ﬂea in my ear and it’s driving me crazy.”

Their enthusiastic and vivacious
character definitely came forth at the
conclusion of the concert, as they sang
“Selections from the Lighter Side of the
Repertoire,” which included “Eleanor
Rigby,” Queen’s “Sea-Side Rendez-Vous,”
Beach Boys and other contemporary
favorites. Although I must admit — my
personal favorite was their piece
dedicated to the greatest state in the US,
the state that is a country in itself: Texas.
Singing “Deep in the Heart of Texas” and
other Texan folk songs, I could not help
but laugh at the sight of six English men
square-dancing around, imitating
cowboys, and yee-hawing! It was quite a
sight!

The King’s Singers are a widely acclaimed group,
traveling all throughout the world for their performances,
and I hope that, if you were not able to see them here at
W&L, you will get the opportunity to see them one
day. Their website is: www.kingssingers.com and they
have several recordings available for sale. If you like
men’s a cappella, I recommend buying a CD — they’re
deﬁnitely the best!

Film Society presents social commentary

l’R()I\l S'l".lFl’ REPORTS

The Washington and Lee Film
Society is pleased to present the
Oscar-nominated documentary
“Bowling for Columbine”. This 2002
ﬁlm was directed by Michael Moore.

Screenings will take place at 7:30
p.m. on Friday and Saturday, March 14
and 15, and will occur in the
Troubadour Cinema. There is no charge
for admission, but contributions are
welcome. This film is in English and is
rated “R” for violent images and
language. As critic Roger Ebert noted,
“The movie is rated ‘R,’ so that the
Columbine killers would have been E

MONDAY, MARCH 10, 20031,:
9.

Lies I was told as a prospective:  

BY CAIEY ANDERSON
.IssIsT.INr NEWS EDITOR

Ah, yes, it is that time of year once again. Thats
right, ladies and gentlemen, its spring. The time when
dormant vegetation comes back to life. The time when
restless animals sound their piercing mating calls.
And, most importantly, the time when young men and
women approaching the end of their high school
careers, turn their thoughts from drama club to
dormitories, from graduation to grade inﬂation, from
APs to applications, and from composition to
contraception.

In early March of 2002, I, Caley Anderson,
soj ourned from my home in sunny southern California
to Virginia for the purpose of interviewing for an honor
scholarship here at this distinguished intstitute of

_ higher learning. While here, I had the good fortune to

meet many students, professors, and staff, all of whom
were extremely gushy about and full of praise for W&L.
Now that I have matriculated here, I ﬁnd most of their
praise to be quite accurate (our faculty IS the best, the
science center IS great, the staff IS wonderful, Laetitia
Pate Evans dining hall IS tolerable, etc.). However,
there was a small number of little white lies that were
told to me during my original visit. I uncovered many
of these only through personal experience and terrifying
epiphany.

1- “Drinking isn’t really a
problem here, no more than at any
other college.” And actually, the
speaker was right. Despite the fact
that I can hear slurred voices yelling
“Eyyyyyyyyyyl,” from 1:30 to 4:30 in
the morning at least three days a week,
drinking really lit a problem here.
And the students are extremely liberal
in their political views. And the D-

HOWEVER, THERE wAS‘A
SMALL NUMBER OF LITTLE
WHITE LIES THAT WERE
TOLD To ME DURING MY
ORIGINAL VISIT. I UNCOv—
ERED MANY OF THESE

fast as we can toward the door, only to have it I

close -in our faces. Then we’ll notice that
ANOTHER door is opening, and run there, and so
forth. I find that the best strategy is to discreetly

follow, in a creepy, stalker-esque manner, someone it

who looks like they might be heading to your dorm,
hoping and praying that you can casually saunter
up to them, as though by coincidence, as they
open the door.

4- “You’re from San Diego? I’ve been there,‘

the climate is pretty similar to ours here in
Lexington.” While I appreciate the considerate
sentiment, I don’t really think that the speaker really
appreciated the glorious weather that we are
fortunate enough to enjoy in southern California.
In Virginia, it gets pretty hot in the fall, though
generally not intolerably so. ‘In San Diego, we sit
in lounge chairs by the beach, (with the temperature

at a temperate 73 degrees at high noon each day Y

throughout the year) drinking ice-cold strawberry
smoothies while lovely, nubile, scantily-clad young
members of the opposite sex fan us gently with palm
fronds. As you all should know from personal

experience by now, this is not the case here in I

Virginia.
5- “You can get groceries and’ other necessary
things at a convenient and reasonable distance from

the campus.” Let’s face it, everyone, if it weren’t for 9‘)

tourism and the approximately 27 million antiques shops
(give or take), Lexington would consist
of simply two colleges without a town.
I have to walk seven blocks just to get
bulk soda, then carry it back (because,
of course, of the rule that all Freshmen
who bring cars will be spirited away into
darkness and never emerge again). And

veriﬁable groceries (aside from Kroger) ‘

Han Serves buttered Crab legs with ONLY THROUGH PER— is Wal-Mart, which makes that glorious
white Wine nightly And the campus SQNAL EXPERIENCE AND store/optometrist’s office/video arcade/1
is iconviently located in downtown TERRIPYING EPIPHANY. hair salon/one how photo center Seem

Kyoto, Japan. Speaking ofliberality. . .

2- “The campus is fairly
conservative, but the majority of the student body is
pretty moderate.” The same guy who said the above
quote gave me this one, too. That scored points with
me, because, although I am a registered democrat, I
think of myself as very moderate. And yet, when I got
here, I noticed that most people pronounce “politically
liberal” in the Same tone that I might reserve for, say,
“Nazi Gennany.”

3- “The campus is great. It’s so beautiful,
and it’s always really easy to get from one place
to another.” I will admit, this one is generally quite
true. It is not true, however, if you are one of
those unfortunate individuals stricken with
temporary stupidity from time to time. I’m sure
that we will all, at some point or another, if we
have not already, leave our respective dorms
without our university cards. And then, because
we will be too timid and reserved to ask the nice
folks down in the security office to open the doors
for us, we will pick an entrance to our dorm and
guard it like a hawk. Meanwhile, we’ll see someone
exiting a door thirty feet away, and we’ll run as

more and more like Disneyworld the
longer I’m away from it. ;

6- “The speaking tradition is still a big part of
campus life.” This one is not entirely false. I do my;

best to say “hi” to everyone I pass out there. The V

problem is that only about half the people say “hi”
back. Another problem- I don’t think the good
General envisioned a “mumbling” or a “nodding
tradition.”

GRANT- “Well, I think it’s indeed quite I‘

reasonable to allow your men to keep their sidearms;
and horses now that the war is over, don’t you,’
General Lee?” ‘~

LEE- “mumble mumble yeah, whatever, mumble.” 

I didn’t think so either. ,
Well, Generals, that’s all for now. I’ll be busy
writing, thinking, and building a conveyor belt to
transport the class of 2006 from Graham-Lees to Wal‘-}

Mart. V

And remember, if in the future you happen to:
spy a certain creepy guy wearing a Chargers hat
following you to your home at a distance of ﬁfteen

feet, he’s not going to kill you, he just forgot his’

university card.

Lexington Art Gallery hosts photography forum 1

FROM STAFF REPORTS

The Lexington Art Gallery will
sponsor a photography forum on the
weekend of March 22-23, 2003, here
in Lexington, which is limited on a
ﬁrst-received basis to 80 attendees
by an advanced registration fee of
$25.00.

On Saturday, March 22, at 2 p.m.
in the VMI Preston Library at 345
Letcher Avenue, Sally Wiant,
Professor of Law at W&L _Law
School, will open the forum with an
update on “Copyright Issues.” Miss
Wiant will speak on the most current
laws and answer questions from the
audience. ‘

At 3 p.m. on Saturday, Jack
Spencer, a contemporary
photographer from Nashville, TN,
will tell the stories behind his
photographs with a visual
presentation at the VMI Preston
Library. Immediately following his

    

 WGWm'IU\l

A TOUCH OF CLASS: The interior of the Lexington Art Gallery showcasing the ,g_
work of contemporary photographers from Virginia and the rest of the
nation. The Gallery plans to host a forum on the subject of photography
which will be held in Lexington during the weekend of March 22-23.

the only real, actual place that sells}

protected from the ‘violent images,’
mostly of themselves.”

Michael Moore is one ofAmerica’s
best known media gadﬂies, using both
print in “Stupid White Men” and the
cinema in “Roger and Me” to draw
attention to social, economic and
political issues in the country. He does
not provide answers to questions, but
he raises them to provoke discussion.
Here, he pokes and prods at the
American gun culture, with the
shootings at Columbine High School
as his starting point.

Along the way, he encounters a
cross-section of Americana ranging from
Charlton Heston to Marilyn Manson to
K—Mart and, occasionally, he seems to lose
his way. But, as the Los Angeles TiInes’s
Kenneth Turan wrote, “Moore’s
shambling on-screen persona
camouﬂages his ﬁerceness and
persistence, his conviction that, as the
father of a Columbine victim puts it,
“There’s something wrong in this country
when a child can grab a gun and kill.”

Ix RElJi}lnl(1\\l(I)KL/L/RE\'ﬂ:\X;B(1XIl>X3l0Rt30IL?\lBH\!F.HlT\ﬂ.

A POIGNANT COMMENTARY ON OUR SOCIETY: Micheal Moore’s 2002 ﬁlm “Bowling
for Columbine” addresses the issues of our Culture as centered upon the
Columbine High School shooting tragedy of 1999. The documentary follows
Moore On a Cross-country trek and provides audiences with fodder for much
thought and debate on violence and other controversial issues in American society.

talk, a reception and exhibit will be
held at the Lexington Art Gallery
at 13 W. Nelson Street where
Spencer will sign Native Soil, his
monograph of 74 Southern images.
On March 23, Sunday, from
a.m. until 12 noon, ‘
Brooks Johnson,
the Curator of
Photography from
The Chrysler
Museum in
Norfolk, will review
private portfolios
with individual
photographers by
a d v a n c e d
appointments and a prepaid $20 fee.
At the VMI Preston Library,
345 Lechter Avenue, the March
23rd Sunday afternoon session
starts at 2 p.m. The first speaker
is George F. Thompson, President
and Publisher of the Center for
American Places. Thompson will
address “Getting the Word Out

 

Through Books of
Photography.”

At 2:45 p.m., Brooks
Johnson, Curator of

Photography from the Chrysler
Museum, will discuss the
museum’s current
and future plans
for photography
exhibits as well as
give an overview
of the Museum’s
fine photography
collection, the
largest in Virginia.

At 3:30 p.m.,
Denise Bethel, the
Senior Vice President of the
Photography Department at
Sotheby’s auction house in New
York City, will end the forum with
a visual presentation on
photography which includes the
historic view as well as the era
starting in the 1970’s-‘80’s when
collecting photography became

popular in the art world. Her‘
topic is “10 Ways to Strike it
Rich by Collecting
Photography.”

For more information Ofy
any unforeseen future changes
in the forum, visit
www.lexingtonartgallery.com
or contact Lexington Art
Gallery at 13 W. Nelson Street!‘
by phone at 540-464-8080. All
checks should be mailed and
made out to “Lexington 

Gallery.” M .1

The Lexington Art Gal- .
lery is located at 13 W
Nelson St. The Gallery " '-y
specializes in contempo- f
rary photography, and 
often features the work of
photographers of both . 1
national and local re-
nown.

 

  

 
 

ER1N]ouos
PORTS EonoR

BY ER1N_lU1.1Us
SPORTS EDITOR

‘ Washington and Lee’s men’s
lacrosse team has moved into
-fourth place to trail only
Middlebury, Gettysburg and

 Rm-rtih Pat

—~ PORTS

OFFENSE ATTEMPT. Gavin Molinelli, no. two, plays offense during Saturday’s
game against Gettysburg. Molinelli scored two points in the conference win.

Salisbury in the Division III men’s
lacrosse poll, which was released
last Monday evening. Voting for
the list was conducted by members
of the United States Intercollegiate
Lacrosse Association. Whittier,
Hampden-Sydney, Washington

1 Mens, womens tennis

 

J58 BRooRs / The Ring» P

The General’s next rnatchup is Sunday against Franklin and Marshall at 1:30

p.m. on Wilson Field.

College, Ithaca, Cortland State and
Ohio Wesleyan round out the Top
10. In the Inside Lacrosse/Faceoff
Magazine preseason poll, the Gen-
erals had been ranked sixth. The
team pulled a 10-9 win over
Gettysburg in a game hosted by the

- jsn BROOKS / Te Rirzg-/zm1P/Ji
MEN’S TENNIs.]uniorGrahamNixservesdu1ingV/ednesdayfs match.

BY ALLISON PERRY

)‘ ' SPORTS WRITER
_ The Washington and Lee women’s and men’s tennis
teams each came out with a win in ODAC competition
‘Wednesday. The men defeated Hampden-Sydney, 7-0 at

'home. The women also played at home, shutting down
, Hollins with a 9-0 victory.

' Sophomore Paul McClure led the men with a 6-
;0, 6-0 win in the No. 1 singles match. Junior captain

g‘Austin Kim won his match 6-0, 6-1 in the No. 2 spot.
In the No. 3 singles match, junior captain Graham
Nix defeated his opponent 6-1, 6-0. In the No. 4, 5,
and 6 singles, junior K.C. Shaefer and freshmen
1 David Shay and Jordan Eichenberger defeated their

‘opponents 6-1, 6-2; 6-0, 6-1; and 6-0, 6-0, respec-
tively.

     

 teas take wins at home matches

In doubles play, Kim and Nix won 8-4 at No. 1.
McClure and Shay shut down their opponents 8-0
at No. 2. Schafer and freshman Chris Kimmel also
won their match with an 8-1 victory in No. 3
doubles.

In the women’s match, 13 ranked sophomore Lind-
say Hagerman defeated her opponent 6-0, 6-3 in No. 1
singles. Senior captain Erika Proko won 6-4, 6-0 at No. 2.
At the No. 3 spot, senior Brandi Jane Wedgeworth had a
6-0, 6-1 victory. In the No. 4, 5, and 6 singles, junior
Elizabeth Law and freshmen Patty Roberts and Ingrid
Easton won their matches 6-3, 6-0; 6-3, 6- 1; and 6-0, 3-6,
6-0, respectively. '

In doubles play, Hagerman and Proko won 8-3 at No.
1. Wedgeworth and senior Alyson Brice secured an 8-5
victory at No. 2. Law and sophomore Marie Trimble also
won their match, 8-5, in No. 3 doubles.

Several of the usual top six players were not at the
match due to academic obligations.

“We were pushed up really far,” said Head Coach
Cinda Rankin, “But it was a nice win.”

Both the men’s team and the women’s team are ranked
No. 1 in the ODAC conference. The men are nationally
ranked No. 14 in NCAA Division HI. The women are ranked
second in the nation.

The men’s team lost three top senior players after
last year. But the Generals have acquired a strong
group of freshmen. David Shay is expected to see
some playing time in one of the top six singles spots.
In high school, Shay won the Georgia state individual
singles championship twice. Freshman Jordan
Eichenberger is also likely to play in one of the top six
spots this spring.

Freshman Justin Hannon was also expected to play
in the No. 1 singles spot and at No. 1 or No. 2 doubles this
spring, but he is currently injured. He trained in Spain for
a year right after high school.

The men’s team will also beiled by juniors Kim, Nix,
and Schaefer. Kim earned All-ODAC honors at No. 4
singles and No. 2 doubles in the spring. Nix received All-
ODAC honors at No. 5 singles and No. 2 doubles last
season. Schaefer earned All-ODAC honors at No. 3
doubles.

Sophomore Paul McClure will also play in the top six.
He received All-ODAC honors last season at No. 2 singles
and No. 3 doubles.

The women’s team, being ranked second in the na-
tion, stands a good chance of winning the national cham-
pionship this year. The NCAA Division III tournament
will be held in May.

“We would like to live up to our national ranking,”
Rankin said. I

Living up to the national ranking will not be hard with
the return of top players Hagerman, Proko, and senior
captain Laura Bruno.

Hagerman was named co-National Rookie of the
Year for the 2002 season. Proko is a three-time All-
American. She made it to the semiﬁnals of the national
singles tournament last year. Hagerman and Proko
played together to win the South Region doubles last
year. They then placed ﬁfth atthe ITA National Cham-
pionships.

Brtmo was an ODAC champion at No. 4 singles fresh-
man year and No. 3 singles sophomore year. She has also
won two ODAC doubles championships.

Coach Rankin said there is an armual Fab 5 tourna-
ment at the end of March where the top national teams will
meet up in competition.

“This should tell us where we will rank nationally,”
Rankin said.

The women play today at home against
Swarthmore. The match is scheduled for 3:30 p.m. The
men play tomorrow at Eastern Mennonite, but the time
is TBA.

Generals on Saturday afternoon at
Wilson Field. Saturday’s win im-
proved the General’s record to 2-0.
The Generals were led by
attackman Matt Fink, ’04, who re-
corded one goal and four assists.
Throughout the game, the Gener-

als held the lead or were tied dur-
ing the second half., but the Bul-
lets never led the contest. W&L
extended a 5-2 half time lead to 6-2
with 6:18 remaining in the third pe-
riod when midfielder Mark
McLewee, ’04 scored off an assist
from midﬁelder Dustin Martin, ’04.
The Bullets then scored the next
four goals, tying the game at 6-6
with only 28 seconds left in the
third period, before the Generals
bounced back in the fourth quar-
ter, leading 8-6. with 10:01 left in
the game.

The game was tied two more
times, at 8-8 and 9-9, before Tom
Melanson’s, ’03, game-winning
goal

“The defense has always been
the strength of the team and they
played really well. We need to work
on finishing teams, not letting them
get back into the game,” said John
Murray, ’05.

W&L was led in scoring by
attackman Matt Fink, ’04, who tallied
one goal and four assists. McLewee
scored three total goals. Attackman
Gavin Molinelli had two goals and
one assist. Orhan Belding recorded
one goal and Jimmy Zunka each
scored one goal. Fink recorded four
assists while Martin recorded two
and Mike McNamara, Adam

  Golf takes 9th place

FROM STAFF AND WIRE REPORTS

The Washington and Lee golf team shot a 304-
300—604 to place ninth of 24 teams at the Pfeiffer/Pine
Needles Invitational on Monday and Tuesday at the
Pine Needles Golf Club in Southern Pines, N.C.

The Generals were led by senior Chip Campbell,
who went 70—77—1 47 for the tournament. Other W&L
scores were Ged Johnson, ’05, went 73-77-150, Tom
Borda, ’O6, went 78-74-152, Chuck Green, ’03, went 83-
74-157 and Cullen Toole, 06, went 84-75-159.

PAGE 7

   

his BRooR The Ring-ti//1 P/)1
SIDELINE. Two Generals look on as junior
Mad{McLewee takes on a Gettysburgplayer.

Chesbrough abd Gavin Molinelli all
recorded one assist each. The Bul-
lets actually outshout the Generals
26-20.

“We played really good defense
as a team and shot extremely well on
one of the best goalies in the nation,
“said Chesbrough, however next
game, “We have to make sure that
we remain composed throughout the
whole game. This season we expect
to win the ODAC and have home
ﬁeld advantage throughout the play-
offs. In the tournament we hope to
go farther then we did last year, ” he
said.

Captain Ansel Sanders, ’04,
stopped six shots in goal.
The General’s take Franklin and
Marshall next in a home game Sun-
day afternoon.

 

But it wasn’t a bar for long. The local Police Department shut down Swifty’s
Lounge for illegal drug activity. instead of condemning the property, they
contacted their local community coalition. The coalition brought in contractors
who donated their time to renovate the building. And the doctor got his hospital

to volunteer services for families that need drug counseling.

lt’s funny what happens when we all work together. Communities become a better
place for everyone, especially our children. Community coalitions bring
other community groups together. And getting involved is easy. just Contact
www.helpyourcommunity.org or 1 -877-KIDS-313. The)/ll tell you how your group

can help. You’ll be surprised how much you can accomplish.

you get; More wHeN 30.} get; ‘l203e‘l',ﬂe[‘_

Office of National Drug Control Policy ‘

    

 

  

 

PILGE. 8

 lizr

 

BY JOHN HYLAND
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee base-
ball team got their season off to a great
start by going 4-1, 3-1 in the ODAC,
last week to improve their record to 6-
2 overall. They had a double-header
scheduled for Sunday against West
Virginia Tech. Some decent weather
allowed the Generals to ﬁnally get
their conference season under way
after four games were postponed the
week following February Break.

The Generals began their busy
week last Sunday, March 2nd in a
double-header against ODAC foe
Emory & Henry, losing their only game
of the week in the first game, by squan-
dering a 3-2 lead. E&H came back to
score six runs in the bottom of sixth
(out of 7 innings) for an 8-5 victory.
Junior Peter Dean was the losing
pitcher. In the loss, junior second
basemenAustin Allain went 3 for 3 with
two runs scored and senior shortstop
Michael Hanson hit a solo homerun.

W&L used the tough loss as mo-
tivation because they came back to
score 15 runs in the first three innings
of the second game en route to a 26-1
demolition of E&H. Eight of the nine
General starters had multi—hit games for
a total of 28 hits. The offense was led
by senior centerfielder Bobby
Littlehale who went ﬁve for six on the
night, including a three-run homerun
for six RBIs and three runs scored. Not
only did the Generals crush every
pitcher that E&H put on the mound,
they also received a masterful perfor- I
mance from junior right-hander Dan
Kagey who compiled the second no-
hitter of his career. Kagey pitched all
seven innings allowing one walk and

13 strikeouts. The lone run Kagey al-
lowed was scored on an error.

The Generals then traveled to
Mary Washington last Tuesday,
March 4th, for a non- conference game
and were able to get a 9-2 victory. Jun-
ior right-hander Michael Wert pitched
seven innings, allowing 2 rims to earn
the win. Brian Gladysz and Scott
Gosselink pitched two innings of
scoreless relief. At the plate, Hanson
and Allain combined for three runs,

six hits and three RBIs. Junior catcher
and rightﬁelder Bryan Mulhem added
three RBIs in the win.

The team opened up their home
schedule this past Saturday with a
doubleheader against conference rival
Hamden-Sydney. Game 1 featured a
brilliant pitching performance from
Dean. The left-hander rebounded from
his previous outing, to pitch seven
complete innings of one run ball to
earn the win iii a 12-1 victory and im-
prove his record to 2-1 on the season.
Dean pitched very efficiently, keeping
his pitch count very low and allowing
only 6 base runners for the game. He
also recorded 6 strikeouts. The defense
behind Dean was also superb in not
committing an error. Dean was also
supported by an offense that pum-
meled the three Hamden-Sydney pitch-
ers that they faced by compiling 14
hits. Many of their outs were even hit
hard. Eight out of 9 General starters hit
safely, led by senior first baseman Brian
Gladysz, who ﬁnished with three hits, a
run scored and two RBIs.

The Generals completed their sea-
son sweep of the Tigers with a 6-2 vic-
tory. Kagey followed his no-hitter with
another solid performance. Aﬁer giv-
ing up two runs in the first three
innings, Kagey pitched ﬁve score-
less innings to earn the win and
improve his record to 2-1 on the
season. Hanson pitched a scoreless
ninth to seal the victory. Gladysz was a
perfect 4 for 4 at the plate for the game
and chipped in two RBIs. On the after-
noon he was an incredible 7 for 9 with a
run scored and four RBIs. Sophomore
catcher Zach Bausch hit a solo home
run in a 3 run fourth inning that gave
the Generals a 5-2 lead that they would
not relinquish. Bausch continues to be
extremely hot at the plate, leading the
team with a .522 batting average.

The Generals got themselves off to
an early lead in the ODAC standings
and seem to be clicking in every
facet of the game. Following the
West Virginia Tech double header,
the Generals play host to Mount
Aloysius on Tuesday, March 9th, be-
fore resuming their conference sched-
ule next Saturday the 15th in a double-
header at Randolph-Macon.

     

Baseball gets stron ;

N0 HITTER. Dan Kagey pitches from the mound during Washington and

MONDAY, MARCH 10, 2003 ,

Lee’s game against Emory and Henry last Sunday. Kagey pitched all seven his career.

_ .8 )OKS / The Ring-/um Pin" 1
innings, allowing one walk and 13 strikeouts. It was the second no-hitter of

 Washington and Lee’s women’s lacrosse team continued its sea-
son with an impressive 20-4 victory over Guilford last Tuesday in an
ODAC—opener game played in Greensboro, N.C. Nine members of the
team scored goals as the Generals outshot the Quakers 34-6. This win
brought the General’s record to 1- 1 , 1-0 ODAC. The Generals has lost
their season—opener 4-8 to St. Mary’s last Sunday.

Midﬁelder Kelly Taffe, ’04, was the games high-scorer, recording
eight points on four goals and four assists. Fellow midﬁelder Lee
Wheeler, ’04, had four goals and two assists while midﬁelder Rachel
Wallick, ’06, had four goals and one assist. In all, 12 different players
recorded at least one point for the Generals. Leslie Bogart ‘O3, Natalya
Hoobchaak ‘O5, Kitt Murphy, ’05, Erin Rathbone, ’05, Maggie
Speasmaker, ’05, and Amanda Strickler, ’06, all scored goals while
, Hoobchaak, Annie Rochfort, ’05, Bogart, Laing Humphries, ’O6, Wallick
l and Laura Wilson, ’03, were responsible for assists.

‘ The Generals will return to the ﬁeld on Saturday, when the travel
to Goucher for a non-conference game scheduled to begin at 1p.m.

Women’s Lax scores big win

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Dine on our V"e’randa'
M aywoctober

 

HOUSE.

Remﬁaurant

Enjoy efegmrzt alirrirzg in at restored 1820 CZas5z'caz[ Rezzigal
rnzarrzfrouse £22 historic dnwrzmwn‘. lexingran

- Tn 
WILLAS<ON_-  _
WALKER »

  
  
 
 
 

fine Dining of Jfistoric Troportions

“Die Best food in Lexiryyton”
~Co1u{e Mast Trrwefer

‘Tues-zfa_y—5aturr{a_y
Luncﬁ 11:30—2:30 L/Jinner i30~9:00
(5atun{a_1,I Lunch not seruer{]an.—£7l/far.)

30 9\[ortfi Main Street
in Downtown Lexirrgton
(540) 463-3020
wwu/.wi[£sonwa[i{er.com

This week’s schedule:

Baseball: Tuesday, Mar. 11, home against Mt. Aloysius at 3 p.m.
Saturday, Mar. 15, at Randolph-Macon at 12 p.m.

Men’s Lacrosse: Sunday, Mar. 16, home, against Franklin & Marshall,
130 p_m_ received from the center where she helped teens with

Women’s Lacrosse: Saturday, Mar. 15, home, against Nazareth, at 12

Men’s Tennis: Tuesday, Mar. 11 at Eastern Mennonite, TBA
Wednesday, Mar. 12, home, against Denison, at 3 p.m.
Thursday, Mar. 13, home, against Sewanee, at 3:30 p.m.
Sunday, Mar. 16, home, against Salisbury, at 9 a.m.
Sunday, Mar. 16, at Lynchburg, at 3 p.m.

Women’s Tennis: Monday, Mar. 10, home, against Swarthmore,

Track: Saturday, Mar. 15, W&L Invitational, TBA

p.m.

at 3:30 p.m.

Tuesday, Mar. 11, home, against Denison, at 4 p.m.
Wednesday, Mar. 12, Randolph-Macon, at 3:30 p.m.
Wednesday, Mar. 12 at Bridgewater, at 4:30 p.m.

Thursday, Mar. 13, home, against Sewanee, at 3 :30 p.m.
Sunday. Mar 16, home, against Salisbury, at 9 a.m.
Sunday, Mar. 16, at Lynchburg, 3 p.m.

 

The Phi mourns the death of
a generational icon. You'll be
missed, Mr. Rogers, a good
neighbor. -

Make a difference this
summer while having the .

Counselors and activity leaders needed to
work at summer camps for children and
adults with disabilities. Camps located near
Richmond and Roanoke, Virginia. Camp
season: early June-mid August.

www.va.easter—seals.or'g/richmond

time of your life.

Pisom by Mvrsncl Mnzzoxz

Visit our website at

or call (804) 633-9855.

This bracelet was a gift Amber Apedaca

drug and alcohol problems. She was wearing it
p when an underage drunk driver took her life.

Friends Don’t Let Friends Drive Drunk.

Usbnpumimtoiimnpavraim

: V
.*
3;,
, .
ax
.
4.
. s .
‘:44
9
I «Q .
 sﬁ,
»~ .
9
z ..
._~..
vs‘ _
_a

 

4

 

 

