Arch

<9-375.155

I‘/\o,lS

R 553..
v. we

c»7.-I

 

1
-‘l

Students, faculty disappointed with GMA’s image of W&L

BY KATIE JENKINS
ST.\l"l" WRITER

Approximately 400 Washington
and Lee University students turned
out for the Nov. 11, 2002 broadcast of
‘Good Morning America’—live from
Lexington. The show began at 7:00
a.m. on the VMI campus, despite what
officials said was inadequate lighting.
Seven W&L students joined
Lynchburg affiliate employees as well
as the 100 member traveling staff to
set up and prepare for the production.
The show was
appreciative of
W&L students
for their help;

“I was generally disappointed with the
type of coverage that W&L received

ment about where they live and
where they are . . . what that be-
speaks is neat. It really is an ex-
traordinary pride,” commented
GMA anchor Charlie Gibson after
the show.

While this was Good Morning
America’s first trip to Lexington,
Charlie Gibson is familiar with the area.
Working with ABC’s affiliate in
Lynchburg, he covered W&L’s Mock
Convention in 1968. “Nixon won,” he
said. “I love being back on the two
campuses.” When asked whether he
preferred Wash-
ington andLee or
VMI, Gibson
said, “Were I to

“W636 really on GMA.\We hadplied themwith apply to 0116 Or
grateful for their lid rth id b t the other, I think
help because we many Very 50 HGWSWO y eas u I’d be one of the
cou1dn’t pull it tl1€yWCt?€ justlooking for Generals.”
off without ' ' >2 Unfortu-
them,” said Lisa ememlmnem’ Pure and Simple. nately, W&L was
Finkel, media re- TOM WHITE not the primary
lations represen— _ reason GMA de-
tative with the DIRECTOR OF (’OMMUNICATl0NS cided to broad-
i‘ Good Morning castfromLexing-

4!

America show.

Students began appearing on
the front lawn as early as 6:00 a.m.,
although students were still arriv-
ing after 8:00. Many students
brought signs or banners, hoping
for the chance to show their love
for W&L, Greek organizations, ath-
letic teams, relatives or significant
others back home. The women’s
Cross Country team showed up in
their uniforms; the tennis team
waved tennis rackets with balloons
attached. A poster proclaiming,
“Canada=Axis of Evil” was particu-
larly noticeable. “People’s excite-

ton on Veteran’s day. The real appeal,
they admitted, was VMI. This was evi-
dent in the lopsided coverage of the
two schools—an hour and a half at
VMI, with the ﬁnal half hour from
W&L’s Front Lawn.

Many students also complained
because they did not feel that the
show accurately represented Wash-
ington and Lee. The mountain
boarding exhibition, in particular,
angered students. “That wasn’t
W&L. Nobody here
mountainboards,” commented
Christi Palazzolo, ’O6.

Others students were shocked

 

BY KYLE WASS
srirr RRITER

Students will have a chance to bowl frozen
turkeys, have their palms read and go to pseudo
casinos on Washington and Lee’s campus next
spring as they compete for a trip to St. Thomas.

‘A Night to Remember’ re
      

Most of the current undergraduate student
body at Washington and Lee are not old enough
to remember the last time organizations came to-
gether for the event called “A Night to Remem-
ber” (N2R). The last time LIFE and other organi-
zations arranged the carnpus—wide event was in
the winter term of 1999. It is unclear why the

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

NG-TUM

ON AIR. Allison Gruenwald, Martha Frankfort and Delia Boone respond excitedly
to ABC cameramen on the Front Lawn last Monday moring during the ‘Good

that the University allowed the broad-
cast to abuse the Front Lawn for. the
mountain boarding scene. Grounds
Supervisor at W&L John Wise is not
worried about the grass.

“Mountain boarding normally
leaves ruts, but there were not lots on
the Front Lawn,” Wise said. “The
grass will come back on its own. Pres-
sure on real wet soil packs the soil, so
when its dry we’ll get some irrigation

  

CVCIH.

_lEE BR()Ol{S / T/JP Ringtiim P/Ii
VILLIAGE PEOPLE. Other carnpus-supported alcohol-free events included A Night Abroad in the GHQ.

board soon.”

Physical Plant plans ‘final solution’ for bugs

‘ BY MEGAN MORGAN
.\SSlST.\\’l‘ \’F.\‘("S IZDITOR

As residents of Davis Donn prepare
to head home for Thanksgiving, many
are aware that upon retuming to Wash-
ington and Lee they may be met with an
unexpected surprise: an end to their cock-
roach problem. While all of the college
dorms have their share of bugs, residents
said the problem has become increas-
ingly acute in the Davis Domis. Raid has
become as common as hairspray as more
and more cockroaches are spotted, and
many residents, such as freshman Chris-
tina Snowden, have had up—close en-
counters with these pests.

About a month ago, “something
fell behind the head of my bed and I
reached down to pick it up. When I
reached for the object, I almost picked
up a 2 1/2 inch roach,” Snowden said.

Since then she has covered her room
in mach traps and sleeps with the lights
in the hope of keeping these bugs away.

Stories like this have become in-
creasingly common within the build-
ing, and freshman Jacob Spencer
swears that this is because “The cock-
roaches are getting bolder. At first, they
would just laugh from a distance, but
the other night I was talking on the
phone and I looked down and there
was a cockroach on my knee. If I dis-
appear, you all know why.”

The breaking point was when
Dorm Counselor Ann Bailey Lynn
found a bug ﬂoating in her closed
bottle of Vanilla Coke.

With no end in sight to this infes-
tation, residents such as George Awk-
ward IH began calling the Building and
Grounds Department to complain.
“Cockroaches in your soda, cock-
roaches in your bed, cockroaches in
your bowls or even cockroach nest in
your dresser. These are the scary tales
of most freshmen dorms. We kill one
here or there, but there are millions left.
We need action to get rid of these

pest,” he said, echoing the sentiment
of many in the building.

When Building and Grounds be-
came ‘aware of the problems in Davis
Dorm, they immediately called Tenninex,
whom they contract out for all bug-re-
lated problems. Terminex already sprays
several of the freshmen buildings on a
regular basis, but this is the first time
that Davis has had problems severe
enough to warrant their being called.

The procedure they perform is not
an actual fumigation, which would re-
quire all of the occupants of Davis to be
relocated, and it is not harmful to resi-
dents of the building. The process en-
tails a poison being sprayed along key
spots in the building where the bugs tend
to reside, such as along the pipelines
and baseboards. Davis has already been

sprayed once since the complaints be- ‘

gan to come in, but the procedure does
not kill all of the bugs in the building and
so it must be repeated on a regular basis
in order to be effective.

tums to W&L

event has not taken place annually since then.
However, it has come back into effect this year,
since the members of LIFE decided to bring it back
“because of its unique approach to alcohol use on
campus,” said Kathleen Gibson, a member of LIFE
who has been helping to organize the upcoming

With what seem to be so few chances to en-
gage in many alcohol—free social activities, this event
provides an opportunity to do just that. The event
is unique because it does not punish students for
misusing alcohol; it also does not exclude fraterr1i—
ties and sororities by offering alternative activities
only outside the Greek system. Rather, it seeks to
include members of all organizations throughout
campus, including all Greek organizations — fratemi-
ties and sororities alike — who would like to partici-
pate. Gibson said N2R is unique in that it “seeks to
include the Greeks and other organizations in a sub-
stance—free night of fun and prizes.”

The organizations currently participating by
giving money and participating include the Execu-
tive Committee, the Interfraternity Council,
Panhellenic, Minority Student Association, the Resi-
dence Life staif, and LIFE. Gibson said, “We’re hop-
ing that other organizations on campus will jump on

N2R is currently set to take place the night of
March 215‘, and “will involve. games, contests, or

and fertilize and reseed.” A

Good Morning America provided
national publicity for the university,
but everyone does not agree that the
publicity was positive. While VMI
cadets were interviewed and given the
chance to discuss their school’s rig-
orous academics and tradition of
honor, Washington and Lee was only
shown superﬁcially. Students were
shown goofing off and having a good

see NZR, page 2

PHI

T/it student unite of Wudnngton and In Uniuertny one 7897 (D On/int ut: pntuu/u.edu

MI,  not   dra boadcast

 

. . - VOLllllE_C.V, N0.XV
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18,2002

   

_]l:B BRO()l{.< / T/IFR/V/lg-//I/lip/J1’

Morning America’ broadcast. For more information and pictures about the

Lexington event, please see page 5.

time, with the focus primarily on moun-
tain boarding and making apple but-
ter. The overall impression was that
Washington and Lee is nothing more
than a Southern, mountain university.
“I was generally disappointed w/ the
type of coverage that W&L received
on GMA. We had plied them with
many very solid, newsworthy ideas
but they were just looking for enter-
tainment, pure and simple. But the

Searches for

BY CALEY ANDERSON
.\S.\'l.\"l'.iNT .\'F.\\'.\' EI)lT()R

As another year goes by, Wash-
ington and Lee will soon find itself
searching for new leaders. Three ad-
ministrative positions, the offices of
the Dean of Students, Dean of the Col-
lege, and the new office of University
Commons Director, will soon be open-
ing up. As these new leaders are
sought, the W&L Women’s Forum will
be pushing for women to be hired.

Dr. H. Thomas Williams, Acting
Dean of the College, and Dr. David
Howison, Dean of Students, both
noted figures on campus, will both be
stepping down from their posts by the
end of the year. These leadership po-
sitions, which are critical and impor-
tant in both the day-to-day operation
of the university as well as in the ef-
fort to create long—range direction and
planning, will thus soon be empty.
The W&L Women’s Forum, led by
sophomore and Chair Becky Skaggs
and advised by University Counse-
lor Anne-Schroer-Lamont and En-
glish Professor Lesley Wheeler, would

GMA was not without its positives.
Our web traffic seems to be up five-
fold, said Tom White, Director of Com-
munications and External Relations.
He believes that “[Viewers will] see
Washington and Lee as a school in a
beautiful setting serving as the host
for a television program that was re-
sorting to entertainment for its audi-
ence . . . I was very pleased with the
overall increased interest in W&L that

he GMA progrBgeneratei .” .

eans egln

like to see women placed into these
positions. “Research shows that ev-
eryone benefits when women and Ini-
norities are in a position of leader-
ship,” said sophomore Susan Sqmers,
KEWL secretary.

The effort to hire the new Deans
is being handled through the office of
Laurent Boetsch, the University Pro-
vost, though President Thomas
Burish has the final say in who is hired.
The ﬁnal decision will likely be made
before the end of the year, and not
over the summer, so that the new
Deans can prepare for their duties.
Additionally, the Dean of Students
traditionally lives in the Lee—Jackson
house, located next to the co-op. The
new Dean of Students will likely re-
quire time to move in.

W&L is an equal opportunity em-
ployer, so there is a distinct possibility
that one or more of the new admir1istra—
tors will be female.

Currently, of the eight deanships
and associate deanships at the Uni-
versity, four are occupied by women:
Dean of Freshmen Dawn

see DEANS, page 2

Diversity event gains mixed reviews

‘ll/lix don’t match’ vanes D-ha/I seats

BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTI‘

EDITOR lN CHIEF

Contrasting clothes and random seating would pro-
mote greater student interaction, PRIDE hoped as it kicked
off its ‘Mix don’t match’ night in the Dining Hall last

week.

“Students were encouraged to dress up funky or in
something different,” said sophomore Tran Kim, who

wore a Vietnamese outﬁt.

Additionally, upon swiping their cards, students
picked up one of six colored cards and sat at the tables

marked in a similar hue.

More than one dozen professors, previous ap-
proached by PRIDE officers, guided discussions.
“It was a pleasure meeting some new students,”

said Religion Professor Harlan Beckley. “It was good

for students who hadn’t met each other to talk.”
Though he did not wear contrasting colors, Beckley
said, “a number of students thought I did.”
“A component of PRIDE is to promote discussion
of how people interact,” explained senior Patrice

Wedderburn, past PRIDE president.

school.”

   
   

#5

jE.B Bkoolgs / T/Jt’ Ring-I/rm 

MELANGE. Avery Gholston, another PRIDE member and
Kyle Meehan initiated the diversity program in D—Hall.

To further festivities, the D—Hall simultaneously held
its annual Wok Night.

“Everyone (in PRIDE) thought the event was a
success,” Kim said. “Next time we’d like to move the
event earlier in the year, to maybe the second week of

 

 

 

""’ "’~ V6 

F. G Mr“

PAGE   3? 3%?

I E.-mall news briefs to

 

Noted work/fami/y author
to speak in Leyburn Auditorium

Dr. Sylvia Ann Hewlett, a nationally known author on jug-
gling work and family, will discuss professional and personal life
issues on Tuesday, Nov. 19 at 7:30 p.m. in Leyburn Lib1ary’s
Nortlien Auditorium at Washington and Lee University.

Hewlett’s talk, “Making Smart Choices in Work and Life,”
is sponsored by the Williams School of Commerce, Economics,
and Politics and W&L’s William Lyne Wilson Lecture Fund. Her
talk is open to the public without charge.
Hewlett is the author of Creating a Life: Pmfessional Women
and the Quest for Children, a book that inspired the controver-
sial Time magazine cover article last spring, “Babies vs. 

Hewlett’s book was based on a survey of men and
women in high—powered careers, including investment
banking, law , and academia.

Among her other books is The War Against Parents,
which was co—authored with acadernician Cornell West.
Hewlett, an economist by training, is the founder of the
National Parenting Association, a non—proﬁt group dedi-
cated to developing farriily—friendly policies in the work-
place. She has taught economics at Barnard College in
New York and was a 1999 fellow at Harvard University’s
Center for Study of Values in Public Life.

 

Fechnay Leadership Development
Program and Ftopes Course available

Washington and Lee University’s new ropes chal-
lenge course is now available to W&L groups and organi-
zations seeking to advance teamwork and trust through
adventure learning.

The course, part of a gift from Scott Fechnay ’69, is
the centerpiece of W&L’s Fechnay Leadership Develop-
ment Program, which provides classroom and experiential
opportunities for athletic team captains. Fechnay was a
soccer team participant in his four years at W&L, serving
as captain of the team his senior year.

The course was built by Karl Rohnke, a 1960 W&L
graduate, author, and a founder of High 5 Adventure Learn-
ing. Rohrike received a dozen varsity letters as a W&L
student (four each in soccer, swimming and track and ﬁeld)
and was in the first class of the 1988 inductees in W&L’s
Athletic Hall of Fame.

Wendy Orrison, W&L‘s field hockey coach, James
Dick, director of the Outing Club, and W.C. “Burr” Datz,
director of Leadership Development, are trained course
facilitators. They will provide workshops ﬁlled with ad-
venture, fun and learning opportunities for campus groups
and organizations seeking to increase personal self-confi-
dence, trust and mutual support within their membership.

Information on the ropes course is available at http:/
/athletics.wlu.edu/leadership/. The Web site includes dates
available for use of the course, a registration form and risk
waivers. The documents, which must be completed a week
in advance of an event, also may be obtained at the Uni-
versity Center, room 207.

News courtesy Wllt.€dLt

 

Date

 

Temperatures
ﬂ-3318 Mostly Sunny 51°/35°
% 19  Partly Cloudy 56°/30°
‘%\f‘20  Partly Cloudy 52°/35°
% 21  Partly Cloudy 54°/36°
'';—’(‘W 22 i 9' Partly Cloudy 54°/31°
3%: 23  Partly Cloudy 55°/35°
ﬁﬁ-E 24  Partly cloudy 52°/36°

WEATHER COURTESY OF WE.\THER.COr\l

Lexington
Weekly
Forecast

Chance of Precip.

0 °!o

U °.-"o

2U °/o

20 °/o

20 °/o

20 °.-to

20 °/o

DEANS, from page 1

Watkins; Associate Dean of Stu-
dents Anne Schroer—Lamont; Asso-
ciate Dean of the College Jeanine
Stewart; and Associate Dean of the
Williams School Elizabeth Oliver.
Womens groups would like to see
more women fill full dean positions,
instead of just being associate
deans.

“We are trying to promote
women candidates in the search for
open positions,” said sophomore
Becky Skaggs, Women’s Forum
president.

After Christmas, Women’s Fo-
rum will run a letter from KEWL in
the first issue of ‘She Says,’ their
annual or biannual publication.

“We’re facilitating (KEWL’s)
work,” Skaggs said

Women’s Forum is considering
dedicating a January discussion to
the advantages of a female dean.

Groups
plan
for NZR

NZR, from page 1

other parties at whichever organiza-
tions choose to have them,” Gibson
said.

There were many popular activi-
ties from the event in 1999 that will
probably be carried over into 2003,
including Frozen Turkey Bowling, a
Palm Reader, Casino Night held at
various fraternities, and Mocktails —
non-alcoholic cocktails — sponsored
by the members of LIFE.

In addition, Gibson said that
“people (who) go to each event will
win tickets that they can use at an
auction that will be held at the end of
the night.” The smaller items lined up
for auction have yet to be announced,
but the grand prize this year in the
auction is an al1—expenses paid trip to
St. Thomas.

All in all, Gibson said, “I think it’s
really going to be a blast.”

evetop ski,l~lSl,:yo.§i.i,canLisle’  your caree

‘harge to  epre nra *

 

“We are also going to have a
poster campaign in the next week or
so,” added Somers. “We’re consid-
ering a petition, but that’s not yet
decided.”

W o m e n s
groups believe
such work is
necessary, as
even since the
University be-
gan hiring
women to fill ad-
ministrative po-
sitions, most
hirees to those
positions have

H0wIs()N

been men.

Additionally, the new Univer-
sity Commons will likely be open-
ing next year. A new administrative
position will be created to oversee
the day to day operation and man-
agement of the building, which will

I MONDAY. NOVEMBER 18, 2(lL2

Administrative replacements sought

include, among other things, a small
theatre, the new Dining Hall and Co-
op, and various other facilities for
student use.

In charge of this hiring project
is none other than the office of the
Dean of Students, Howison, who will
also likely come to a decision be-
fore the close of the year. Construc-
tion on the Commons, which was
originally slated to be ready by
Spring of 2003 Fall of 2004, has pro-
ceeded much faster than antici-
pated, and the new director of the
Commons will need to be hired far
earlier than was forseen.

Overall, of the 18 appointed
administrative positions in the Uni-
versity, 10 are women, but most are
in associate or assistant positions.
If a woman is appointed to the
Deanship of Students or the Col-
lege, it would set a remarkable pre-
cedent in W&L history.

THIS HOLIDAY SEASON, GIVE THEM

JUST
COFFEE

I7
LEXINGTON

COFFEE

.‘/a’nu-.sIi1_Ig (w’un¢uq9v

EXCEPTIONAL COFFEES GROWN & PROCESSED
IN A SOCIALLY & ENVIRONMENTALLY JUST WAY
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET ‘ LEXINGTON 0 464-6586

THE; RING-TUM PEI OPINIONSEDHOR
PINIONS 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2002 . PAGE 3

’I’r%ERiNO-'II,I.;i’I-II
STARE EDITORIAL
Let’s AstroTurf the Front Lawn

Besides branding W&L coast-to-coast as
apple-butter-loving bumpkins, ‘Good Morning
America’ did W&L the disservice of tearing
up our historic Front Lawn. This was a bless-

replace two acres of Kentucky Bluegrass and
Perennial Rye. It is also no small task, how-
ever, to water, mow and reseed said lawn ev-
ery eight hours.

During the recent ‘drought, for example,
who knows how many scholarship funds were
slashed and how many assistant Visiting pro-
fessors ﬁred because of the high costs of sur-
reptitious night-time watering. When you stroll
across the Front Lawn, be aware that you tread
on the buried dreams of dozens.

AstroTurf, in contrast, is not watered with
the school’s life blood. ’

The Phi particularly recommends AstroTurf
Series 12, “a finely tuned, highly engineered sur-
facing system which incorporates the Very best
of current sports turf technology,” according to
the AstroTurf homepage. Without a doubt,
AstroTurf’s unique diamond extruded nylon 6.6
ﬁber will offer a better shock absorbency, wet/
dry traction and naturally porous material than
grass does. After all, if grass (a plant) were so
great, not just anyone could have it on their front
lawn.

No, only a premier liberal arts college,
helmed by a young and charismatic new
president, could have the foresight to spend
money to save money.

There are reasons outside the fiduciary.
Take Freshman Dean Dawn Watkins, who lives
in the Hollow, the row of houses on the Front
Lawn’s far side.

“Lawnmowers make a lot of noise,”
Watkins sagely observed. No doubt both her
office and her home routinely fall prey to the
sonic bombardment emitted during these
machines’ destructive circuits.

Danger does not stop at the eardrums, how-
ever. Readers who have had the misfortune of

 catching a hand inside‘ a Sears Model 917 26-
‘' horse power garden-tractor know what we
mean. Yes, the moment your hand enters the
path of the twelve stamped-steel cutting
scythes, driven by a hydrostatic drive and 725cc
Kohler V-T‘win engine, it’s “goodbye, arm.” The
Model 917 will spit out something the color and
consistency of tapioca, while you fervently wish

l\rRANNAEEviDiLAE

Democrats not devastate

On November 5, millions of
voters went out in droves to pro-
fess their desire of leadership —
whether or not the Democratic
Party was the party of vision or
obstructionists that stand in the
way of the Bush Agenda. Demo-

nesota, Missouri, New Hamp-
shire, North Carolina and South
Dakota.

The voters clearly wanted
change in Washington as many
saw the GOP gain seats in the
House of Representatives and
regain control in the United
States Senate. Many Republi-
cans saw this midterm election
as a “mandate” from the Ameri-
can people that Washington
“needs new leadership and to
stop the partisan wrangling.” I
agree with the assertion that we
need to see bipartisan-
ship on many issues
but the Democratic
Party is by no means
in a “state of shock.”

First, Democrats
pulled even with the GOP in the
governors’ races with each party
holding twenty-five seats. One
of the most surprising races
came out of the state of Geor-
gia, where Republican Sonny
Perdue won the governor’s
race against popular incum-
bent Governor Roy Barnes
which most viewed as Gover-
nor Barnes’ race to lose. How-
ever, the Democrats gained
seats in more conservative
states such as Tennessee,
Kansas, Oklahoma, and Wyo-
ming while losing in traditional
Democratic states such as Mary-
land and Massachusetts.

We should keep this in mind
as the 2004 Presidential race is
concerned; the party that is in the
Governor’s Mansion during a
presidential year usually gets the
edge in very close elections.

Second, the field for pro-

PHOIO (DURIESYOF Ll'Ii"W’L.ilIT.E[)l 7

THEIR SAVIOR. Sen. John Kerry (D-MA) is one of the Democrats’ few hopes of
regaining the presidency in 2004, as well as stirnulatin party morale and fundraising.

spective presidential candidates
has gained some momentum. The

lash of criticisms against Bush
Administration’s policies while
pointing out that the economy has

flagged for almost two years as
well as warning Americans that the
ideological balance in the judiciary
may move to a conservative bend
from the district court level on up
to the United States Supreme Court
. Other prospectivecandidates in-
clude Senator John Edwards (NC),
Senator John Kerry (MA), Rep. Ri-

CENIER-LEEI
ANDRAE ANDERSON

The voters clearly wanted change in
Washington as many saw the GOP gain seats
in the House of Representatives and regaining
control in the United States Senate. Many
Republicans saw this midterm election as a
“mandate” from the American people that
Washington “needs new leadership and to stop
the partisan wrangling.”

<06 Al Gore.

chard ephardt (MO), and Sena-
tor Tom Daschle (SD). Should
President Bush’s approval rat-
ings go downward, these people
may have to make their claim to
the Democratic establishment as
to why they should represent the
Party.

Third, the Democrats scored
some major upsets in races across
the country. One surprise was in
the Arkansas Senate race
where Attorney General Mark
Pryor won against incumbent
Senator Tim Hutchinson by a
margin of 54% to 46%. Pryor is
the son of former U.S. Senator
David Pryor who served Arkan-
sas from 1979-1997. Another
shocker came from Maryland’s
Eighth Congressional District,
where State Senator Chris Van
Hollen defeated incumbent
Rep. Constance Morella by a
margin of 52% to 48%. The two
challengers both went to the cen-
ter to define themselves with the
voters. Both parties targeted both
races as critical in their quest to
capture control in either house.

Get ready everyone, the
Democrats may pull out the stops
come 2004.

leader of the
pack is former
Vice-President

Gore has
maintained a

BSA discriminate against atheists

19-year old DarreH Lambert is amember of a minority member of the organization, but the stubborn refusal to

 

W&L as good or better

than Harvard, er al.

Asoiirmuch-anticipatedThanksgivingBreakiollsaroi1rid
the corner, my mind is ﬁlled with visions of Starbucks, home
cooked food, and the prospect of being able to go into a

decent mall without having to make a 2-hour pilgrimage.

. . . . _ . highly Optimistic» Thanksgiving
ing in disguise. we must carpet the newly-bare “am We’? . _ . . .
1aWninAStmTuI_f about their chances in many bnngsfam1ly,ﬁrends MYNORTHFACE
. .' battleground states such as Ar— and the potenilalto ,
Admittedly, it would be no small task to kansas’ Colorado’ Georgia, Min_ run into those KAM COEN ()4

people in high

school you thought you’d never see again. For rrie, Thariks—
giving also entails a New-Eiigland- style high school football
game, on the morning of such a great holiday. Every year, my
town plays its big rival and people ﬁom both towns ﬂock to
this ﬁeezing social event.

Where I live, people don’t know too much about Wash-
ington andI.ee. Idon’tblarne themfortheirigrioiancelarnthe
only person from my high school ever to attend W&L. In fact,
I’m sure many students outside the realm of Texas, Georgia,
MarylandandVirginiahavetodealwiththisa1lthetime.Ionce
was asked why I chose to attend a community college. Dining
my senior year of high school, I often followed up where I was
attending college with the defensive sound bite, ‘It’s a good
school, really!’ Then you have the confused iriquirers, who
just simply confuse the school you go to with about ﬁve other
colleges with similar names. ‘You go to William and Mary?
Washington University? The University of Washington?
Washington and Jefferson?’

It’s hard for rrre not get somewhat annoyed when people
assume that since I don’t go to a school with an Ivy League
brand name or attend a well—kriown New England liberal arts
school, that I’m not getting as good of an education. My
smug classmates who attend Harvard, Princeton and the like
have made cracks about how easy I have it I disagree. I once
read in a college guidebook that at W&L the woridoad is like
the conﬂict with Iraq: never ending.

That quote has stuck with me throughout my three years
at W&L, because the amount of work that has been assigned
to me embodies that statement. Students at Washington and
Leeworkjustashard,ifnotharder,thanstudentsatmore
prestigious universities. The small classes we go to make it
exceptionally hard to skip class without a solid reason behind
it. I’ve never worked harder to get an A then I have at W&L,
since we boast some of the most demanding and intelligent
faculty members around

There aren’t any gut courses at this school where you
can just sit there and expect the As to roll in. Unlike other
schools of ‘higher caliber,’ the phrase ‘grade inﬂation’ is a
foreign concept here, since last year’s Honor Roll had about as
many students as there were people who actually had dates to
Chiistrnas Weekend

We may spend a good deal of our time mountain-board-
ing on the Colonnade and consuming vast amounts of apple
butter in the Co—op, but W&L students also stay up late in the

T C-SchoolperfectingtheirPowerPointpiesentations,whiletheir

friends sleep in the Science Center struggling to break the
average on their impossible Organic exam while their roorn—
mate watches the sun rise overI_ee Chapel memorizing histori-
cal dates of the Fianco—Piussian War.
Wehavetoworktwiceashardasthosewhoattendlvy

group of Americans that is regularly scorned, dismissed
as a fringe section of society, and generally not accepted.
As a result of his belonging to this group,
the Boy Scouts are about to expel him from
their ranks. You might think that he’s gay,
but he’s not. Nor is he an ethnic minority.
Darrell Lambert is an atheist.

He has been a scout since his earliest childhood, work-
ing his way from Tiger Cub to Cub Scout to Boy Scout,

abandon dogmas of the past is leaving the Scouts in a
sticky mess.

Leigueschoolstosliowfiitureernployersaridgiadschoolad-.
missioriscommitteeshowsrnartwearewithouttheaddedbeneﬁt‘
ofanarnebrandonourdiplomaW&Lmaynotbeninnberorieor1 .
anybody’s ridiculous lists of the best colleges, but I wouldn’t
waritto experience my undergraduate education anywhere else. .

So this Thanksgiving, when you go home to see your
family, friends, and anyone else who wants to know how you 3
are enjoying school, be sure to let them know just how thank-
ful you are for the education you are receiving at W&L.

that you had agreed on AstroTurf (which
doesn’t, we might point out, need cutting).

)1 To be sure, AstroTurf could cause abra-
sions on those who slipped on it, or tried to sun-
bathe on it, or fell on it during an Ultimate Frisbee
match. Athletics Director Mike Walsh, how-
ever, told the Phi that no one could be injured
merely by walking across it. ,

gm} Although the Boy Scouts do have some-

MODERATE S MUSINGS _ thing of a history for intolerance, as they also
_._h.gCALEYANDEP~%0N ‘06 1§.kp.hZTs°§°;‘i’§i.SI§” 21.3??? Eamliﬁiilifii‘ TE
ﬂagrant disregard of the ﬁrst amendment. While it is within the
Boy Scouts’ rights to exclude whomever it wishes, it is showing
more and more that it is neither a tolerant nor a well—managed

If for no other reason, do it for the chil-
dren.

Editors in chief Katie J. Howell
Matthew B. McDermott
Imran Naeemullah
Catherine Guy
Jeremy Franklin
Jeb Brooks

Caley Anderson
Megan Morgan
McQueen Calvert
Sharyn Regan
Dave Crowell

Erin Julius
Barrett Daws

Cody Gabbard
Tallie Jamison
Donny Banks

Jit Shrestha

Kyle Wass

Paul Seifert
Thomas Worthy

Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Sports Editor
Photo Editor

Asst. News Editors

Asst. Arts & Life Editors
Asst. Sports Editors
Photographers

Copy Editor

Production Assistants
Business Manager

Asst. Business Manager
Circulation Director Henry Grimball

Advertising Assistant McQueen CalVel't
The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the

I lieve in God, they gave him an

and recently received his certi-
fication as an Eagle Scout, the
elite of the Boy Scouts of
America. Yet when it came to the
attention of high ranking BSA
ofﬁcials that Lambert did not be-

ultimatum— profess belief in God
or leave the Boy Scouts.

The absolute ridiculous-
ness of this ruling is astound-
ing. Is Darrell, who has worked
hard his entire life to attain the
prestigious title of Eagle Scout,
inferior to a Boy Scout who joins
for two weeks and then quits
merely because he does not be-
lieve in a higher power? Is there
anyone who can sanely think
that any atheist is inferior to any
theist simply by their unbelief?
The Boy Scouts think so. In fact,
they’ve stated that they will wel-
come Lambert back into the
Scouts if he merely “professes
a belief in God.” Lambert, who

PHUIOCDL
RELIGIOUSLY INTOLERANT. The Boy Scouts,
their outdated requirement of faith, are in danger of
becoming outdated and irrelevant in this new era.

could have easily professed his way back into the Scouts

organization. Membership in the
Boy Scouts is rapidly declining, and
the organization may soon ﬁnd it-
selfin quite a ﬁx if it continues hold-
ingtoapolicy drawnupintlie 1800s
which dictates “No man is much
good if he does not believe in God.”

Atlieistic, agnostic, or other
sorts of unbelieving Boy Scouts
cause no disruption in troops
through their lack of religion Darrell
was previously praised by various
fellow scouts and scoutrnasters as
being “a young man with tremen-
dous positive energy,” a great leader
always ready to help others,” and
“someone I could always count
on.” Yet now the Scouting website
is mysteriously silent on the sub-
ject, though various other news
sources are abuzz with stories of this

    

. .. . . illogical exclusion.
mm’ W”L"‘”t‘{Jf§§{',‘§}‘§ The solution? The BSA must
accept the fact that religious diver-
sity includes the right not to prac-

tice religion. It’s that simple.
The Boy Scouts should try to bring themselves into the 215‘

Tradition trumps
ephemeral fads

This weekend, Washington and Lee students showed
that despite this year’s skewed calendar, they value tradition
above any sense of seasonality. Despite Thanksgiving’s be-
ing two weeks away,
we celebrated Christ-
mas Weekend with
our traditional gusto
and fervor, to the de-
light of nearly the entire campus. Trivial, perhaps, but I think it
points to something else: we at W&L value tradition.

While it would be ridiculous to suggest that this year’s
calendar reﬂects any social engineering at work (rnoie likely, it
has sorriething to do with getting us home in time for Christ-
mas), this does touch upon the broader issue of how irnpor—
tanttraditionistous. Forexarriple, Tailgating: farfrom eliminat-
ing the presence of drunk students at football games, banning
alcohol at Tailgate has merely shoved its usage underground

It seems that there is a certain “Law of W&L”at work,
which goes something like this: for every action taken by the
administration to undemiine tradition, the student body reacts

RIGHT—WlNG RESPONSE
IMRAN NAEEMULIAH ‘O5

undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editors in chief, but The Ring-
_ tum Phi is otherwise independent.
5 The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit subrriissions for con-
H tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
veitising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court defini-
tions of libel and obscenity.
I The Ring-tum Phi
I Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University (
Lexington, Va. 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Va. 24450 -  ~ - 

‘ Telephone: (540) 462-4060 "U15 I "3 ”’
Fax: (540) 462-4059 “[Expletive deleted]” “The essence of Washington “Diane Sawyer...NAKED !” “Introduced by N orthemers to “What the hell is mountain

Email". phi@WI"'edu and Lee.” make Southerners look stupid.” boarding?!”

http://phi.w1u.edu
AI/m.,,’,1 §l,b‘_.__,\.,.;(..iI,,_p Q?,,.,. Q35 —ROBR.lF Cl ARKF. ‘O6 . A vrv R AI".’\QT(‘\\U ‘()6 J‘ A'I‘uI:DY\l'F (‘Ann I FTT1 ‘()6

while still not actually believing, refused, saying that the
honor of a scout would not “allow [him] to lie.” The indi-
vidual clearly has clearly proven himself to be a worthy

Century. With their exclusionary policies, they currently reside
in the 19”‘, and if they continue on this road, they will soon ﬁnd
themselves a relic of the past.

by not only upholding it, but taking it further than ever before.
Love it or hate it, it certainly holds true.

  TN-KBACK: 

          

-MARY HOLLOWAY ‘O6 --Al17\.’.(‘A{i\Pp in-4

 

MONDAY. N0VEirBERl8. 2002 - 

 

      

Tibet exempliﬁes Chinese problems

RELIGIOUS FREEDOM. The Chinese have
a long way to go in this departrnent.

The ﬁfties were a bad decade for
Tibet. In 1951, Tibet “voluntarily”
signed the Seventeen Point Agree-
ment with China that forever joined
the two nations. In 1955, the PLA
moved in and started making the place
a whole lot more Chinese than it ever
was or wanted to be. By 1959, the Ti-
betans had decided that making nice
with an oppressive Communist regime
was a raw deal, and they rebelled. The
PLA, as it is wont to do, cracked down
and killed 10,000 Tibetans in Lhasa
alone. Across Tibet, monks and nuns
were murdered and temples were de-
stroyed. The Dalai Lama ﬂed to India,
never to return.

At the time of the crackdown,
more than 95% of Tibetans practiced
Buddhism. A province with so many
devout believers didn’t exactly jive
with the official atheism of the gov-
ernment, so the Communist govern-
ment set about disrupting Tibet’s re-
ligious life. The tombs of previous
Dalai Lamas were desecrated and
their bodies were dismembered and
scattered. Monks were forced to

break their holy vows or face execu-
tion. Golden statues and other sa-
cred objects were melted down and
shipped east.

Since then, the
situation hasn’t im- _
proved very much. In :
1988, in a presage of
the Tiananmen Massacre, there was
a student uprising in Lhasa. Hun-
dreds were killed in the carnage that
followed. Interestingly, the man
who, just this past week at the 16”‘
Party Congress, was anointed Jiang
Zemin’s successor as General See-
retary of the Communist Party, Hu
J intao, then- governor of the Tibetan
“Autonomous” Region, orches-
trated this slaughter of students.
Deng Xiaoping liked what he saw
and called Hu to Beijing after this
incident beginning China’s newest
dictator’s career in the big time.

In 1989, the Panchen Lama, sec-
ond only to the Dalai Lama in Bud-
dhist hierarchy, passed away. As is
their custom, the Buddhists sought
out the child in whom he had been
reincarnated and, in 1995, found a
six-year—old boy from eastern Tibet.
As is their custom, the Communists
appointed their own Panchen Lama
and imprisoned the real one and his
entire family, making him the young-
est political prisoner in the world.
At Yonghegong, a Buddhist mon-
astery maintained in Beijing so the
government can claim that China has
freedom of religion, one can see pic-
tures of the Communist Panchen
Lama being installed with a smiling
Jiang Zemin in the background.
Somehow, I doubt Siddhartha imag-
ined atheist dictators choosing the
leaders of his religion. To this day,
monasteries are forbidden to dis-
play pictures of the real Panchen
Lama, but instead, must put photos
of the Communist imposter in places
of honor. This is tantamount to a
government mandating that its

 

, LIVE FROM CHINA
 BRETT KiRwRN‘04

Christian population display all cru-
cifixes upside-down. Many Tibet-
ans expect a similar scandal when
the current Dalai
Lama passes on.

So, even a
brief trip to Tibet
will reveal that the
WTO’s newest member, the latest
country to be granted permanent
“Most Favored Nation” trading sta-
tus by the United States, the most
recent entrant into the community
of responsible nations is actually no
more responsible than Hannibal
Lecter at a morgue armed with bar-
becue sauce. The Communist Party
can’t seem to satisfy its appetite for
bloody butchery and abusive, op-
pressive laws.

Friday’s seamless appointment
of the next generation of leaders was
good for the Chinese Communist
Party, but bad for China. Past suc-
cessions had included purges and
fights for power among the party’s
top leaders. Now, the CCP has ma-
tured enough that it can perpetuate
its rule without such self-defeating,
messy politics.

China faces a bleak future for
exactly the same reason. Without in-
ternal strife, and with external com-
petition outlawed and brutally dis-
couraged, the CCP faces no imme-
diate challenges to its supreme au-
thority. Moreover, the newly-ap-
pointed leadership came of age dur-
ing the Cultural Revolution when
the universities were closed and the
nation was in the grip of a Maoist
psychosis. Hu Jintao and his lieu-
tenants may prove even more insu-
lar and backward than Jiang Zemin’s
generation. And, they have already
demonstrated their willingness to
use the army to crush dissent.

So, while the rest of the world
enters the 215‘ Century, as its record
in Tibet demonstrates, the CCP is
eager to keep China in the l960’s.

PAGE 4

Campus funding should follow free market model

Lately, there hasn’t been much dif-
ference in reading the student newspa-
pers at Washington and Lee and the na-
tional newspapers. At W&L people are all
asking for more 
money forsober
driverprograms
a n d
multicultural centers; even the City of Lex-
ington wants a new courthouse.

This seems eerily similarto the national
situation when we hear people asldng for
more money for education, roads, and na-
tional defense. The comrnon bond between
allthesethingsisthattheywouldfulﬁlla
needanddo somegoodforthecommunity,
butwea1lmustaskourselves,“Atwhatcost?”

It may be possible to have free sober
rides available with minimal wait, but that
might require a tripling of the current bud-
get for GASD. Wouldn’t it be better to
give every student the number for Franks
CabCompany (464-3198) orDumis’Taxi

    
 

> FREE Tnoucrns
_;li_Y:IVﬂEFﬂ.‘(l3_

Servioe(463—l056)andlettheprivaIemar-
ket take care of how many taxis are out
there and their cost? This is certainly a
better solution than the University try-
ing to meet the students’
demands at a cost of zero.
The City of Lexing-
ton handled the court-
house issue very irresponsibly. Ifthe state
law saysthatthecourthouse mustbeup
to a certain standard, they need keep the
courthouse up to that standard. They
have put their own selﬁsh goals of being
reelected above the welfare of the city by
calling for a referendum They took the
easywayoutratherthansteppingupto
theplate andtakingcareofwhatneeded
tobedone.Theircowardicewilllikelyend
up costing the taxpayers (i.e., you and
me) much more through frivolous law-
suits and increased bureaucracy, than
would have been necessary had they
done the right thing in the ﬁrst place.

The Executive Committee’s solution
to the perceived lack of funding for cam-
pus organizations is to raise the Student
Activity Fee to $200, an increase of ﬁf-
teen percent This certainly will make more
money available to organizations, but it
does nothing to change the fact that there
are problems in the way they currently
allocate funding. It is important that the
hearings are open so that people can see
why money is being spent.

More importantly the University
and the Executive Committee need to stop
the practice of the Deans’allocating
money to organizations that are perceived
as being under-funded. Let the market
take care of the short falls. If someone
really wants to be a part of an orgar1iza—
tion, they will find a way to pay the dues
of that organization. Just ask the three
quarters of the Washington and Lee stu-
dents who are members of a Greek Orga-
nizaiion.

Letters to the Editor-

Goshorn clariﬁes position on MLK petition

Dear Editor,

I would like the opportunity to clear up some misun-
derstandings published in Tran Kim’s most recent article
in the Phi. I was one of the two students mentioned who
declined to sign a petition recognizing Martin Luther King,
Jr. Day. However, unlike Kim’s account, my reasons for
doing so are not compatible with those she assigned me
in her article—in fact, she offered‘ her ear to me for all of
two seconds before engaging the gentleman seated across
from me in the D—Hall in a minor debate.

I had been offered a chance to sign this petition two
or three times before Kim approached the group I was
seated with at dinner. Each time I had been solicited, I had
thoroughly reviewed the entire content of the petition
(something which, I rrright add, was not offered to my
compliant dining partners) and took issue with the lan-
guage of the petition, and thus declined to attach my
signature. The language of the petition, if anyone else
bothered to read it, argued that Washington and Lee’s
failure to recognize Martin Luther King Day was not rep-
resentative of our status as a top-ﬂight liberal arts institu-
tion, nor with our supposed commitment to diversity.
There are innumerable worthy reasons to celebrate Mar-
tin Luther King Day. Kim even listed some in her article.
However, the petition’s argument focused on none of
these, but rather on diversity initiatives and U.S. News &
World Report standings.

As nice as it would be for Washington and Lee to
rise in college rankings, as long as recognition of holi-
days is prioritized over grade inﬂation, what do those
rankings mean anyway? Furthermore, if diversity and its
merits are represented by an official ceremony sanctioned
by the University, we in fact should begin celebrating the
lives of important ﬁgures from any and all viewpoints
present or potentially present on campus.

My point is not that we should have ceremonies for
all of these holidays, for anyone whose capacity doesn’t
quite agree with satire, but that if we are to accept that
college rankings and diversity initiatives justify the rec-
ognition of holidays, then it opens up the doors for this
university to be subverted into a mockery of its own some-
times-noble goals. Re-write the petition, and I will gladly
sign it. As it-stands, my name will remain absent, as I’d
rather not advertise my views with its particular brand of
persuasion.

Sincerely,
John Goshom ’05

KIM RESPONDS:

In writing this petition, we did not deem it necessary to
explicate the heroic eﬁorts of Dr King in a long list, believing
everyone to be aware of his actions. It is understood that the
holiday is to represent his life, his achievements, and his
legacy. It is called MLK day for a reason. We made references
to the efforts of other universities to recognize MLK day but
this does not imply that we only want to celebrate MLK day
to boost our rankings. To suggest this as our impetus shows
some negligence in not being able to interpret our primary
goals. Furthemiore there are many other celebrations that
deserve recognition as well because they aﬂect other groups
of students, but changes occur slowly, and they occur even
more slowly in a conservative environment such as W&L so
we must take things one at a time. But for now PRIDE is
working to recognize MLK day, and it is not merely because
we want to be the number one liberal arts school. Simply
adding one holiday would do little to aﬁect our placement.

McDermottbidsadieu

After five terms at The Ring-tum Phi’s helm, I
have been assumed into Editorial Valhalla, where,
alongside Joseph Pulitzer and William Randolph
Hearst, I gaze down

with benign concern EX CATHEDRA
on the frantic
scrambling of my l\’LiTll{EWMCDERiVlOlT‘04

successors. As of
this issue, I in full favor and confidence leave the
keys to the kingdom to Katherine Janiforth Howell.

The Pax McDermana began in mid-April 2001,
and has ended 44 issues later. Although halcyon,
those days were also hectic, in a controlled, masterful
sort of way. A few of the major improvements:

The Phi moved from one—and-a—quarter rooms in
the University Center’s attic to a five—room off-
campus complex, sextupling our working space and
giving us a modest private bath. The space was
further improved when I pried desks loose from The
Law News, picked out the demi—tasteful art in the
Reeves Center, and bought new computers with
hoarded, forgotten Pub Board funds.

The paper’s layout changed from Railroad Gothic
to a lighter, more modern look.

Our press-color front-page, the first ever, testifies
to the vitality of our advertising and new subscription
programs.

Our photographs have never been better, and we
are no longer afraid to print large pictures.
Meanwhile, the ongoing Phi Digital Archive Project
preserves important moments from the last 50 years.

Lastly, a visit to Special Collections will convince
you that the quality of news and sports writing has
not been seen for decades.

Without a doubt, this year completed the Phi’s
reestablishment as the predominate campus
publication. We have at last exorcised the specter of
the early 90s, those days when our excesses and
deficencies led (hard as it is now to credit) the
campus’s better writers to create and to work for an
alternative paper. No more. Ancient wrongs have
been made right, the upstart trodden under, and the
Phi reclaims its seat at the head of the Pub Board
table.

Our successes, however, have encouraged my
resignation. I always have preferred the bad times:
when the computers crashed, or a law suit threatened,
or a rotten staff member quit.

These times are mostly behind us. Things run as
smoothly as they ever do on a paper. We have
rationalized the thousands of acts that collectively
create the week’s Phi. There is now less to construct
and more to maintain.

Because I have done what I could for the Phi, it
would be churlish of me to hold on to power for another
year and a half. It’s time for those waiting on the wings
to make their contributions.

My last week as editor in chief has seen the
admission of seven talented new additions. I have no
doubt that they, who will have only the most tangental
knowledge of my editorship, will carry on suitably.

It is impossible to sum up the many memories of
crises, talented co—workers, untalented co—workers,
triumph, achievement and companionship. As I sink
into the comfortable obscurity of contributing editors,
I have no doubt that there are still more memories to
make.

Plan Commons events

As the John W. Elrod University Commons takes
shape, many have wondered how it will inﬂuence campus
life. Will there be a decreased emphasis on Greek life? Will
it bring students together? There are plenty of questions
to ask, but we can be assured that the Commons will be

 
 

nothing more than

another large, CoMMoN SENSE
brick facility 0 er-

looking worms ONATHAN WORTHAM ‘O4
Creek if we do not

have innovative ideas for its use after opening next fall.

Although a proud member of my fraternity, I do think
that the University does need more carnpus—wide activi-
ties. And, undoubtedly, some of these would come at the
expense of Greek—system parties. Carnpus-wide activities
promote campus involvement, which leads to higher re-
tention rates, increased student morale, and a closer com-
munity. All of these were probably reasons we chose a
small campus. Sometimes our fragmented, somewhat elit-
ist social scene causes us to miss some of the perceived
advantages of a small campus, which carnpus—wide events
would help enhance. Clearly, the Commons should be a
place for everyone to enjoy, and those who plan for its use
should deﬁnitely not overlook interesting university-wide
programming.

Programming in the Commons must also be attractive
and innovative. Students should want to come to events
and Greek members should want to forgo parties to come.
This is often not the case with our current array of campus
programming events. Some research should go into ﬁnd-
ing out exactly what students enjoy, and some efforts
should be made to pursue programming ideas that reﬂect
these themes. A committee should be formed (if it hasn’t
already) to look at ideas for Commons activities and make
recommendations to existing organizations for potential
programs. Hopefully, this plan will lead to more organiza-
tional collaboration and higher attendance at organiza-
tional functions. Even if we don’t have more campus—wide
activities, increased organizational participation will bring
our campus community closer together.

. . . Cur-
Sometimes our fragmented, somewhat elitist remly’ S0_
social scene causes us to miss some of the cial life is

perceived advantages of a small campus, which C entered

. in the fra-
cainpus-wide events would help enhance. t C I n i t y
Clearly, the Commons should beaplace for 11011 S6 5-
eve one to me and those who lan for its While I
ry l _y’  . agree that
use should definitely not overlook interesting the frater-
uni ri -wid r arninin. “M65 are

V6 8 ty ep Ogt g valuable

and nec-

essary institutions, I think that everyone would beneﬁt
from some Commons activities. We should plan now for
the opening of this wonderful facility so that students will
not simply walk through on their way to the parking ga-
rage. We have an opportunity to have interesting events
in a spectacular new facility. We should plan now so that
we can enjoy the fruits of campus involvement later.

Democrats save face

I VV1th the November 5”‘ election over and done with, we
Democrats, admittedly, have a bit of face to save. There are
multiple reasons and excuses that can be cited for the election’s
outcome (for those of you who do not pick up a paper or watch
anything but E! or ESPN, the Republicans now control both the
House and Senate, and still the Presidency).

The biggest problem was that the Democratic Party had no
real identity following the wake of the 2()00 Presidential election.
\V1th the party siding with President Bush on so many issues
following 9/1 1, it was difﬁcult for the crucial swing voters in the
middle to see any reason why they should not vote Republican.
“What, you support the President, too? Well, then I’ll just vote
for the people on his team.”

Plus, Tom Daschle has done plenty since the election to leave
abittertasteinthemouthsofeventhemostLeftofDemocrats.

 

Seriously, just ask me. 4_~ _€__
H53 like ‘hat guy that LEFT OF CENTER
candarnpenyournight _ ‘ ‘
atthernoviesseeingthe ; NICR Ri.\isEY 03
newest Harry Potter

bycomplaining aboutwhatthemovie1eftoutfromthebookThe
moviewasneadythreehours.Whatrnorecouldyoucraminthere?

Thus, it was a breath of ﬁesh air to see the Democrats
wisely name Rep. Nancy Pelosi of San Francisco as their leader
in the House. The fact that Pelosi is the first woman chosen to
lead either political party in either chamber of Congress is a
triumph itself. But there is much more to Pelosi than the fact that
her gender will be good PR for female voters.

Just one trip to Pelosi’s website and one can see that issues
important to her include AIDS Awareness, Women’s Issues, and
Human Rights in coimtries like China. Pelosi’s record of serving as
San Francisco’s Representative since 1987 also illustrate her pas-
sion for issues like education, the environment, and healthcare.

But this was not the only smart move by the Democrats in
the wake of the election. Rep. Robert Menendez of New Jersey
defeated his opponent Rep. Rosa L. Delaro of Connecticut to
become the highest-ranking Hispanic in Congress. Furthermore,
Rep. James Clyburn (SC) was elected his second in command,
makinghimthehighest—1ankingAfrican—AmericaninCongress.

These three ofﬁcials are not only very different from
one another in their backgrounds but also represent voters
from three very distinct geographical regions of this vast
country. However, this is more than just a way for Democrats
to appear that the members of their party better represent a
population that is becoming more diverse all the time. It is a
way for the party to appoint some of their best politicians
who have the overwhelming support of their constituents to
prove that the Democrats are the party that better represent
America’s diverse population. It is much more than a PR
stunt. It is a statement of fact. Democrats have ﬁnally realized
this is the time to put on their best face. A face that has many
colors and represents this country as a whole.

Here on the campus of W&L, it is easy to forget this
point. There are even still a number of students that frown
upon this campus embracing students that do not ﬁt the
“status quo.” Really, what the hell is the status quo any-
more? Why would anyone choose to think with such tunnel
vision? Those who do should really consider poking out
their mirrd’s eye.

» Teach carefully. We can .-

 Cali 8,77-ACT—WlSE or visit W

 

CATHERINE C. GLY
., Yilfiﬁ. RljN<7;~Tl,“Ml)l- AR,,&L,.EEm
R I '8 IF‘ 3 g fwgi EAIA1EGuI‘@wIr.EI)L'
PAGE 6 ’ _ _J MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2002
1
V
‘.
W .
JEB BROOKS / T/JeRin(g—/1///1P/if
FIRESIDE CHAT: Charlie Gibson and Diane Sawyer escape the
dreary weather by talking inside of Lee Chapel.
'1
W
‘W

          

T}2eR1r1g-I1/In PM

W A BIRD’s EYE VIEW: As seen from above, spectators gather around to watch
the actions of the mountain boarders on the front lawn.

_lEB R()()l\.\

Y
4
V
1.

_lEB Bl{t)()K.\‘ / T/J? R[1/g-t///2/ [W

J53 BR00 / WK/’Q€”/"”P’”' UP, UP, AND AWAY! A visiting mountain boarder takes ﬂight in front of \X/&L’s Tucker Hall.

V, SMILE FOR THE CAMERA! Charlie Gibson and Diane Sawyer Good Morning America introduced this new sport to countless viewers across the nation as well

 

address the nation, while the camera crew focuses in on them. as to the Washington and Lee University community.

jl~.'B Bxoos‘ / T/JeR1'21(g-ft/II1 P/ii
OUT OF MANY, ONE: Tony Perkins, a member of the Good
Morning America crew stands before a crowd of spectators

and the colonnade.

 

 

BY SAM LAGRONE
\'.\[I DESK

Soggy and cold — outside a bowl of day-old Lucky
Charms— are not two parts of a good morning in
America.

Now, one would think that the stoic spirit
pervasive here at VMI would frown on me for
complaining about the massive invasion of ABC’s
Good Morning America of our sleepy rural Virginia
hamlet of Lexington.

But I can safely say that a good number of the
Corps were, as a grizzled mountain—man would say,
“right ornery,” to be lined up for the cameras at 6:45
a.m. Cadet pupils were getting adjusted to the morning
when they were violently turned into pin-pricks by
lights that would have been better
suited for stupefying deer.

I can only assume any other
student body would be ecstatic to
have their campus graced by the likes
of Charlie Gibson, Diane Sawyer or
that weather guy that’s down with
all the old people.

According to the spotty polling
I conducted, most of us could care
less.

You have to take a step back
and admire the purity of the
cynicism.

Now if we cadets had been
given a choice between sleeping an extra 15-minutes
and being parading around on national television odds
are that we’d pick sleep (Maybe the freshmen would
pick TV, but they don’t know any better.)

But what we lose in sleep we more than make up
for with righteous indignation. Oh, if only the
microphones were placed in the formations... All the
bitterness, all the grumpy faces and oh so many
swears. I personally find it rather uproariously funny
that Diane and Charlie were scant feet from such
cursing that would make a longshoreman wink
approvingly under his eye patch.

Huddling under an umbrella Charlie and Diane stood
in the middle of the formation while the bagpipe band
marched the corps to breakfast. I forget the song but it
was close to a chorus of dying cats. Diane, bless her
heart, was appeared to be blissfully unaware of where
she was and what she was doing as she kept talking

I (IAN ONLY ASSUME ANY
OTHER STUDENT BODY
WOULD BE ECSTATIC To
HAVE THEIR CAMPUS GRACED
BY THE LIKES OF CHARLIE
GIBsoN, DIANE S.-\\x/YER OR
THAT WEATHER GUY THAT’s
ooxw WITH ALL THE OLD
PEOPLE

about some scary cave that she went to earlier that
week.

Charlie: These cadets are really something.

Diane: Brrrr. Dark...cold...ropes...orangejumpsuit...hat
with a light on it.

They seemed impressed with the school, with the
mettle of the cadets, but for some reason the most dazzling
feature of their visit was our hats.

If you haven’t seen them, cadets wear hats that
look like we bought them in bulk from a bus-driver
supply store, and since our figure—flattering uniforms
don’t have pockets, all our stuff gets shoved in the
lining.

When touring the dining hall, Charlie took an
interest in the hats that we all wear. This development
threw a wrench into VMI’s and ABC’s well—oiled

media plans. Cadets have a
tendency to tape off-color

pictures or subversive
declarations like, “VMI SUCKS,”
up there.

One of the quick-thinking
VMI officers, in an attempt to
save face, made a mad dash to a
big pile of hats that were about to
be filmed and dumped out the
contents to weed out all of the
potentially huminliating bad
apples. In the process, countless
pairs of black gloves, along with
pencils and pens were cast hither
and yon, and tragically lost to the sticky floor.

Eventually, they found some hats that had been
sanitized and appropriately G—rated and showed them off
for the camera.

Diane informed us that if she had the opportunity to
keep stuff in her hat, she’d stash some Diet Coke up
there.

So, as you can see, the clear moral of this story is
apparently as follows: Is anyone gonna ask me to a
party?

Send all of your invites and questions to
lagronesr@mail.vmi.edu

This column is dedicated to my good friend Mr. W.
Thomas “Jaunty” Johnson, without whom this week’s
installment could not be possible. And also to all of
those countless pairs of gloves that are now missing in
action somewhere behind the juice machine. May you
rest in peace. ‘

What I think: commentary from a bitter independent

BY S’11»\x1 .1-‘A’ Toouc
ST.\l-l~ WRl’l‘I9IlI

After three and a half years as a
student at this so—called fine
institution of higher learning, 1 have
decided that the time has come for
me to share my experiences with
you. I am a proud member of the
Gamma Delta Iotas, or the “Gosh
Darn” Indepents, for those of you
not quite up to my own intellectual
level. As I look back upon these
wasted years, a few particular items
stand out in my mind. Here are some
of my musings, crafted for your
reading pleasure.

Campus Living: Do you have
any idea what it is like to live down
in the oh—so—luxurious Woods
Creek Apartments for three years?
I can never find anybody who
actually wants to live with me, so I
keep getting put in the rooms with
RA’s.

The apartments smell, the carpets
are moldy, and they give you your
years supply of toilet paper all at one
time. I don’t need to consult calendars
or make notches on the wall like
prisoners do, through careful
observation and measurement I just
figured out that I go through 4.35 rolls
per week. Except when D-Hall serves
Mexican food—that throws my whole
system off.

The climate in Woods Creeek is
completely different from that of the
rest of campus. It is colder and
damper each and every day. There
are strange woodland creatures with
which you have to contend
whenever you want to venture to
class, the library, or the Troubador.
Worst of all, my neighbors are all
sophomore sorority’ girls, who throw
raucous parties on random week
nights, and who, not surprisingly,
look at me as if I were something
about as appetizing as month—old
pond scum.

The only cool place they did
have for us the independent
population, the Delt House, got shut
down because some of those Four-
Square tournaments they had were a

BRY \,\’ E.AR1,\' / Tbs Ring-////)1 P/ii
Embittered W&L senior Stanley Toole

bit too out-of—control. So Woods
Creek it is.

New Advances in Personal
Hygiene: Since admissions gave me
a full—scholarship to attend W&L
instead of my dream institution, MIT,
to raise the school’s US News Ranking
and to detract from the number of
potential Greek affiliates, I have
plenty of money to try all the new
products “guaranteed” to get the
ladies.

What has it ever gotten me?
Nothing. In fact, now [have to shake
out my night—gown every night
before I go to bed because the
cockroaches that inhabit my cozy
Woods Creek abode are potently
attracted to the scent of my new AXE
body deodorant. In the commercial
attractive ladies jump you in
elevators, but in reality bugs just try
to lay eggs the arm-pits of your
clothing.

Dating: The prissy girls at this
school won’t talk to me and the townie
girl cashiers set my change down on
the counter so they won’t have to
touch me.

Thank God for Everquest. Right
now I’m seeing this charming
character that I hope is a girl. Her
name, at least in the game, is
SkaOrcKiller69. I ﬁrst met her wl1ile
I was busily attacking the
dangerous and powerful level 9

    

wildebeests outside of the Gnome
Imperial Embassy in the small,
troubled nation of Qakurkistan. An
evil wildebeest wizard had cast his
dastardly “Rain of Cud” spell on her
and she was about to die. Luckily
for her (and for me, for that matter),
I dashed in to rescue her like a knight
atop a white steed. Her Everquest
character is totally hot, too——on the
binary scale,*she is most definitely
a 1.

Fraternities: Frat guys think
that they are all so cool and tough
with their loud parties, binge—drinking,
unkempt hair, and bizarre accents.
Yeah, well we have a name for those
people back in Minnesota—
Wisconsinites.

I went to a few frat parties when I
first matriculated here, but I kept
getting ushered to the couches in the
comer with the people who couldn’t
speak English.

Fraternity men’s GPAs are just
barely scraping the bucket, but
they get to live in mansions and
eat special food made for them,
while I have a 4.29 (damn
Bibliographical Resources) and am
forced to live with some guy who
calls himself the “Goose—Daddy,”
while getting indigestion from the
D—Hall’s fiesta surprise casserole!

Christmas Weekend: Only at
a place like Washington and Lee,
where tradition runs so deep that
there’s a two—inch tread dip through
the side columns in front of the
Graham—Lees corridor, would the
entire Greek system put on the
charade of a Christmas-themed
party weekend in the middle of

. November. The only thing “white”

about this Christmas here in
Lexington is the powder—mustaches
sported by the narco—philes and
rush at a few fraternities.

Disclaimer: This article does
in no way represent the views of
the Ring-tum Phi staff as an
entirety. It is a fictional piece,
created by junior Bryan Early, who
is, in actuality, a resident of the
previously maligned state of
Wisconsin and is not an
independent.

 

PAGE 6

M%

MERRY CHRISTMAS, LOVE BETA

Irs CHRISTMAS TIME IN THE CITY: Beta Theta Pi shines with the Christmas spirit
this week.‘ Each of W&L’s ﬁfteen fraternities decorated their houses this weekend
in celebration of the long-standing tradition of Christmas Weekend. Due to
restrictions set by the calendar, there are no available weekends after
break, thus pushing the holiday festivities up to the weekend of November 15-
16. As in previous years, the weekend consisted of cocktail parties, band
performances, and general holiday fun. Although this year’s events occurred

&hm#4«w

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2002

Com‘ G.\BBARD/ The Ring!/wt P/21'

significantly earlier than in the past, the inventive use of Christinas lights
and decorations was as creative and eyecatching as ever. Much like years past,
both Red Square and Davidson Park have been transformed into jungle of
electical light and plastic Santas. Each fraternity does something a little bit
different to decorate its house. Despite all chronological difficulties,
Christmas Weekend is a Washington and Lee tradition that has remained
strong and will continue to so for many years to come.

Coal towns are wild, wonderful

BY JEI3 BROOKS
PHOTO EDIIOR

Coal keeps the lights on.
Without it we would be in the
dark and very cold. The story of
West Virginia and Eastern Ken-
tucky is not limited to the pro-
duction of coal. This area is,
without a doubt, worth a visit,
and you should certainly make
the trek, if you have the oppor-
tunity.

Here in Lexington, we are
only on the cusp of Appala-
chian culture; it becomes much
thicker and more exciting as
you travel further to the west.
Before a trip, it is important to
have a grasp on the character
of the population. They are a
unique group with many inter-
esting perspectives and stories
to share.

Before the l960’s, hundreds
of thousands of men and women
were living in the many towns of
southern West Virginia and east-
ern Kentucky. Many of these resi-
dents were working in the mines,
while the remainder relied upon
that industry in one way or an-
other.

All of a sudden, because of
many factors including the ad-
vent of the union culture in the
region, the jobs disappeared.
Those who were able to left the
area. But many could not go.
The 1,000 residents of War, WV
are still there for several rea-
sons. Located in the extreme
south of West Virginia, War is
the state’s southern most city
and is located in McDowell
County.

Most can simply not afford
to leave. Because there are no
jobs, about 40% of the population
of the free state of McDowell (a
holdover from the county’s neu-

trality during the Civil War) do not
work and receive monthly checks
from the government. 80.1% of
the population own their own
homes; this is nearly 20% higher
than the national average. The
ﬁgure is high because nearly all
of the houses are substandard.
Once a family moves into a house,
they are unable to afford its up-
keep.

The second reason that
people stay in the area is because
their families are there. Some
people even come back to the
area to take care of family mem-
bers.

It is more likely, however, that
residents who remain in counties
like McDowell are there because
their family has existed in the re-
gion for generations. This is an
extremely strong reason for
people to remain; they feel a
strong identiﬁcation with the re-
gion. Many experience a strong
attachment to the area.

Despite the negative im-
ages of the “hillbilly,” some
West Virginians are proud of the
uniqueness their Appalachian
heritage provides. From moun-
tain music to mountain board-
ing and apple butter churning,
the unique culture of Appala-
chia is reason enough to stay.
Most residents can’t leave.
Many want to seek new oppor-
tunities but can’t.

I sincerely suggest that you
visit the area and speak to resi-
dents. To my West Virginia
friends, I salute you. Thanks
for sharing your culture with
us; it is truly unique, intriguing
and exciting. There is no rea-
son for the rest of us to mock
West Virginia; a visit to the area
will prove that there is so much
more to it than simply

“rednecks.”

The Phi wishes the W&L
community a happy and safe
holiday season. See y’all in

January!

 

Write for

Americas #1 Student Tour
Operator

Information/Reservations
1-800-648-4849 or
www.ststravel.com

Spring Break 2003 with STS

Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free

the Ring-
tum Phi!

CDCID

phi@wlu.edu

Reflections

Howison reflects on top athletes of recent years

   

BY DAVID HOWISON
DEAN OF 5'Il'Dl3N’IS

Last week I offered my most
memorable athletic moments at
W&L. Here are the most memorable
athletes from the past thirteen years.

Josephine Schaeffer ’96 ~ Cross
Country/Track. A tiny wisp of a girl
with the heart of a lion. Unbeatable.
Mikel Parker ’99 — Soccer. The best
and classiest soccer player of them all.

Ansley Miller ’00 -
Basketball/Lacrosse. Although
basketball was her primary sport,
Ansley dominated a lacrosse
game just by her presence.

Christian Batcheller ’00 —
Football/Baseball. The best all-around
athlete. Quarterback and ODAC triple
crown winner. Ashoulder injury ended
his baseball dreams.

Pope Hackney ’0l — Lacrosse.
An exceptional talent with
surpassing leadership skills.
Universally respected by teammates

 

\ .-\RlYH(E(I1\l
and opponents.

Jessica Mentz ’02 — Basketball.
W&L’s all-time leader in points and
rebounds. Tough and tenacious. A
joy to watch.

Jenny Thomas ’03 — Soccer. Her
somersault flip-throw is unlike
anything ever seen at W&L.

It’s probably not a good idea for
me, as Dean of Students, to pick a
“favorite” athlete but, what the heck,
I’m retiring this year so here goes.

Chris Sullivan ’03 — Footballl
Track. It’s not merely Chris’
extraordinary record—reaking career
that puts him at the top of my list
of achievers. lt’s the fact that he’s
a “little guy,” just like me,
measuring in at about 5’8”or 5’9”.
OK, I’ll admit it. He has about forty
extra pounds of solid muscle, can
bench press 350 pounds, run the
40 in 4.3 and long jump 22 feet.
Even so, when I watch him take off
on one of his breakaway runs, I
think, “Hey, I could do that.”

Live exam week to the fullest

At W&L, we work hard and we
play hard. Every week, we find
ourselves in a repeating cycle of ﬁve
nights of work and two nights of fun.
Our expectations are simple — during
the week, we do all those things that
our parents think we are here for, and
after the week ends, we do all those
things that we think we are here for.
And it’s a good life.

But there is one week out of every
tenn that breaks this cycle. It is the
one week when all W&L
students close
themselves in their
rooms, or in their Carrels,
or in a Leybum ﬁshbowl,
and try to make up for every hour
they’ve spent procrastinating over the
previous twelve weeks. For some
students, it is pure hell. It is the last
hurrah — a ﬁnal academic battle before
we go home and prepare for the next
term of fun. Of course, I am talking
about Exam Week.

Tragically, most students are
stuck into thinking that Exam Week
exists only to bring stress, tears, and
sleepless nights. These students are
dumb. Surely, we all want to succeed
on our ﬁnals. But Exam Week should
not just be about ﬁnals. Despite the
tests and the studying, Exam Week has
the potential to be the greatest week
of the term for every student in
Lexington.

Think of it — there is no other week
in the term when you have so much
freedom to manage your own time.
There are no classes, and you can
schedule your own ﬁnal times. And
even then, after you’ve scheduled
your tests, you can punt. Certainly,
the exam punt is the greatest finals
week tradition. We’ve all done it once.
The punt represents the highest level
of academic freedom. For any reason
— maybe you didn’t study enough, or
your car broke down, or you drank too
much at the Palms the previous night,
or you wanted to throw Frisbee in the
Quad — you can simply skip your test
and take it some other time. During
Exam Week, there are simply no
commitments. When you are not
actually taking a test, you can do
whatever you want.

So why would anyone want to _

waste this freedom by studying all the

. ABSOLUTE FEIILORO
TIM SMITH ‘04

time? Do something fun! Try studying
during the day and partying at night —
then you can wake up with plenty of
time left to take an afternoon test. Maybe
you could go on a road trip for two days,
and then return to take your tests in the
second half of the week. Or perhaps,
with all your freedom from daily
commitments, you can become a night-
person. . .this is the joy that I discovered
during one Exam Week last year. For no
reason, one night I decided to not go to
sleep until 6AM.
Then for the rest of
the week, I started
every day at 3PM
and ended every
day at 5AM. Every student should try
this — you can work alone in the computer
labs, you can watch late night TV, and
you can meet the wonderful W&L
Buildings and Grounds staffers that you
never see during the day. Exam Week
allows us to see aspects of W&L life
that most students never experience.
The possibilities are endless.

Then, of course, you always find
those students who ‘shotgun’ their
finals and hurry out of town as soon as
they can. What’s the point behind this?
What does home have that Lexington
can’t offer? A much better plan for
these students is to ﬁnish their finals
and to let the parties begin. In this way,
Exam Week once again allows an
opportunity for unequaled fun — there
is no better feeling than having a night
of fun and debauchery after finals are
done. Before rushing home, why not
celebrate the end of the term with your
friends?

I am not downplaying academics
at all. Obviously, we are all here to
succeed as students. But in a school
known for its amazing parties and
fabled Greek system, I find it disturbing
that we let the fun slip away for
something as inconsequential as a final
exam. If anything, Exam Week should
be the greatest week of every term. It
should be something we look forward
to as one final celebration of the term,
our tests, our friends, and our lives in
Lexington. Don’t let your term end on
an anticlimactic note. Go home
knowing that you’ve ended the
semester well. So for this upcoming
Exam Week, study hard, do well, and
save the best for last. i

# 1 Spring Break Vacations!

Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas,
Mazatlan, Florida, SPadre. 110% Best Prices!
Book Now & get Free Parties & Meals!
Group Discounts. Now hiring Campus Reps!
1-800-234-7007
endlesssummertourscom

Fraternities . 30I'0I'iIiﬂS
CIIIIIS . SIIIIIGIII Iil'0llI|S

Earn $1,000-$2,000 this semester with a proven CampusFundraiser
3 hour fundraising event. Our programs make fundraising easy
with no risks. Fundraising dates are filling quickly, so get with the
program! It works. Contact CampusFundraiser at (888) 923-3238,
or visit wwwcampusfundraisercom

msetaeo or HT  “SUV;  DARWIN.  

'5 rtmg‘ at $ -.15, I55. Mao's! ﬁtrnmr

Seats fire, has 53 cubic

feet of cargo space. and

is available with 183 hp
and a 6-speed manual
shift. Evan evolution

can’! fully explain it.

Etlilll ll}-‘.I'CIl.in #3709:  L145 9!», IE3},  LE7!
DU  P58 Tirtﬁ-E ‘K150  {CHE ‘§‘U%J. "MSW F32-LLEES
l3't§%.faE5l'% FR1)§’5§il’¢'.} ti. iltttiﬁbitﬁ FE. E¢§}U.EElE’f$ Tait
      

 

K

]EREi\/IYFRANICLIAI
SPORTSEDHOR

EMAII; PlLil\II\lll\1]@\3tIlJlEDU

nth Rli\?{'3~”i‘t1lt~i PE:

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2002

PORTS-

PAGE 7

W&L falls to UT-Dallas in NCAA 2nd round

Footbal

It

CAREER ACHIEVEMENT. Senior tailback Chris Sullivan received the Falcon Award,
named for former W&L coach Gary Fallon, at halftime of the Generals’ Nov. 9
game. Against Greensboro, Sullivan rushed for 96 yards and the game’s lone TD.

‘. FROM STAFF REPORTS

GREENSBORO, N .C. —-Wash-
ington and Lee ﬁnished the 2002 foot-
ball season at 5-5 with a 6-0 win over

It Greensboro College at a rain-soaked

J arnieson Stadium on Saturday.
Senior Chris Sullivan’s touch-
down with nine seconds left in the
first half was all the offense the Gen-
erals would need against the Pride.
Sullivan rushed 29 times for 96
yards, giving him 1,123 yards for the
season. He also set a new W&L

5/ record for career rushing yards with

it

3,140, breaking the mark of former
teammate Marc Watson, who gradu-
ated a year ago with 3,112 yards.
Greensboro managed just 151
yards of total offense and turned the
ball over three times as the Gener-
als’ defense recorded their first shut-
out since beating Catholic 34-0 in

3 1993.

' Junior linebacker Ben Krasnoff
amassed 16 tackles to lead W&L,
while senior linebacker Matt Stavish

‘and freshman cornerback Joe

Swimmers top Hollins

reaches.500
~ with win over Geenboro

  

FlIEI‘HO'lO

Greenhill each intercepted a Greens-
boro pass.

W&L competes at regionals

FREDERICKSBURG —— The
Washington and Lee cross country
squads traveled to Mary Washing-
ton College on Saturday to compete
in the NCAA Division III South/
Southeast Regional.

The Generals ﬁnished ﬁfth of
23 teams in the men’s race, while the
women’s team placed seventh in a
ﬁeld of 27 squads.

Sophomore Wes Bell placed

ninth with a time of 26: 16.09 to pace
W&L, while junior Andy Schorr ﬁn-
ished close behind at 26:20.05, good
enough for 12th place.

Sophomore Stephen Chambers
ran the course in a time of 26:43.02
and ﬁnished 25th overall.

Senior Burke Duncan led the
W&L women by running the race in
23:28.01 to ﬁnish 16th.

All four runners were named to
the All-Region squad for placing in
the top 25.

V
trolled possession of the ball, lirriiting
   the Pride to just three shots on the
In 1st-ever tournament afternoon-
» ;; ‘‘It’s good that we controlled the
game, then fall to Comets midfield with the condition of the
BY JEREMY FRANKLIN ﬁeld,” Marcoux said. “They like to get
the ball and take it down the ﬂanks,
SPORTS EDITOR and the fact that our midﬁeld could
‘Y The Washington and Lee control it helped us out a lot.”
women’s soccer team concluded the Cunningham was also pleased
best season in school history with an with the performance of his defense,
NCAA Division III Tournament win as sophomore goalie Emily Barker was
i and an appearance in the regional forced to make- just one save in al-
semifmals. most 88 minutes of play.
The Generals, seeded second in “We played great at the back,”
the NCAA South Region, ended the Cunningham said. “We had one spurt
2002 season at 17-2-3 witha 1-0 loss at the end of the first half where
it to No. 3 University of Texas-Dallas at (Greensboro) played real well, but our
the Comets’ home ﬁeld on Saturday. defense controlled the rest of the
W&L began its first-ever playoff game.”
appearance with a 2-0 win over f1fth- The Generals took nine shots
seeded Greensboro College, the Dixie against Pride goalkeeper Adrienne
T Conference champions, at the Liberty Buttino, who recorded four saves, and
Hall Fields on Wednesday. finally secured some breathing room
Both teams struggled early with with justover nine minutes remaining. B.nu<Q.,T 1),“./T,,,R,-WM] M
a muddy ﬁeld’ but "u_mor Fontame seiner mldﬁelder Jenny Thomas NCAA WIN. (Above) junior Fontaine Marcoux moves the ball upﬁeld in W&L’s
y Marcoux scored 9:45 into the game tookaﬂip throw-in from about 25 yards 2_0 . G b . Ch ﬁr tr d f th NCAA Di . . HIT mt
off an assist from sophomore Maggie out and sent it right in front of Buttino Wm Over teens CFO In C S , Gun (,) C , wslon Oilmame
Hope. and the Greensboro net. Junior Heather on Wednesday at the Liberty Hall Fields. (Right) Seniorjenny Thomas ﬂip-throws
“The ﬁrs‘ goal was crucial’ eSpe_ Coleman’ who had entered the game the ball in. Marcoux scored the first goal, while Thomas assisted on the second.
cially to get one early,” W&L coach just four seconds prior to the throw, as the Comets’ Kristin Andrews scored cured its first Old Dominion Athletic
‘ Neil Cunningham said. “The longer headed it home fora2-0 lead. off a cross from Stephanie Scarfone Conference championship by defeat-
the game goes, you expect to win be— “It was really important for us to with 9:30 to play in regulation. ing three-time defending champion
cause you’re at home and you’re the get an early goal,” Marcoux said, “but Texas-Dallas outshot W&L 12-6 Lynchburg on Nov. 9.
higher—seeded team.” we really needed to get that second on the match, and Barker recorded six “I can’teven explain it,”Marcoux
4, Neither squad was able to create one just to put them away.” saves in net for the visitors. said after the Generals’ win over
a lot of good scoring chances during W&L couldn’t continue its run in The Generals’ 17 wins were the Greensboro. “We’ve never made it
the contest, but the Generals con- the tournament in Dallas on Saturday, most in school history, and W&L se— this far. We’re just making history.”
V

     

 

BY DAVID CROWELL
.\SSl.\'T.\\”l‘ s1>oitrs };‘l)lT()R

ATLANTA —— The fourth-seeded
Washington and Lee volleyball team
dropped a 30- 17, 30-22, 30-18 decision to
top seed Trinity (Texas) University in the
NCAA Division HI South Regional Semi-
ﬁnal on Friday night at Emory Univer-
sity, ending a season in which the Gen-
erals won a school-record 32 matches.

W&L also reached the regional
semiﬁnals for the second straight year
despite graduating five seniors, in-
cluding three-tirne Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference Player of the Year
Lindsay Ruckert, from last year’s
squad and starting five underclass-
men throughout the season.

This ability to overcome the huge
changes led sophomore outside hit-
ter Michelle Chastain to look optimis-
tically towards the future.

“We have a great team and I think
we have a great shot at winning
regionals next year and advancing
further in the tournament,” the First
Team All—ODAC selection said. “Los-
ing (Stacey) Kirmnel next year and this
past week was tough, but we really
fought through. I think we’ll do some
great things in the future.”

The Generals reached the semiﬁ-
nals by earning an impressive victory
over Christopher Newport on Thurs-
day night, a squad that defeated W&L,
3-2, on both Sept. 7 and Oct. 10.

W&L won the first two games,
30-19 and 30-27, before dropping the

WARNER CENTER. Sophomorejennifer Lux sets the ball for
freshman Taylor Gibson (2) in an early-season match as (from

left) sophomore Michelle Chastain, freshman Susan Gaillard

third game, 30-28. The Generals came
back for a 30-20 win in the fourth game
to take the match.

Sophomore outside hitter Emily
Wolﬁng led the Generals with 15 kills and
20 digs, with Chastain adding 12 kills and

14 digs. Freshman setter Christine
Gladysz tallied 34 assists and four aces.

Chastain said the difference be-
tween the earlier losses and Thursday’s
victory was in the team’s attitude.

“We’ve been playing a lot better
as a team in the past few weeks, so I
think that helped our conﬁdence,” she

said. “We went out with a lot of con-
fidence and weren’t intimidated."
Unfortunately, Chastain admitted
that the Generals were a bit intimidated
by the Tigers, who surprised W&L’s
defense with its quick offense.
“They’re a great team and they’re
the No. 4 team in the nation for a reason,”
she said, “but we also made some errors
on things that we have control over.”
Chastain provided a bright spot,
however, as she broke Ruckert’s
single-season record for kills, tallying
13 to finish the year with 475. Chastain

FIIE PHOTO

and sophomore Erriily Wolﬁng look on. The Generals set a
school record for wins with a 32-8 campaign and won their
ﬁfth Old Dominion Athletic Conference title in six years.

also added 10 digs but was modest
about her record-breaking year.

“I try my best and I worked really
hard this season,” she said. “I went
through a rough spot about the midway
point of the season and my teammates
really picked me up. I always attribute
any of my success to my teammates.”

Wolﬁng contributed ﬁve kills and
11 digs while Gladysz ﬁnished with
27 assists and eight digs.

The Generals ﬁnished the season
at 32-8 and won their second straight
ODAC championship.

stroke and 200 breaststroke — and
also won the 100 backstroke.

Senior Kelli Austin won the 200
and 500 freestyle races, while junior
Jackie Green won the 100 and 200-
yard butterﬂy events.

Jacobs also mixed up the relays.
“We divided them up by years. The se-
niors swarn one, the juniors another, and
so on, and that made it a lot of  she
said. ‘They all swam good, quality races,
and that’s what I wanted to see.”

“This meet was a deﬁnite con-
fidence builder after the loss to
Randolph-Macon,” she added.

The W&L women will return to
action when they travel to Bryn
Mawr on Nov. 23.

It BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

Wednesday evening brought

the women from Hollins to Twombly

‘V Pool for an Old Dominion Athletic

Conference swim meet. In a decisive

victory, the Generals brought home
the win with a 176-81 score.

Coach Kiki Jacobs noted quality
swimming from her team, “We swam
pretty well today. There were a lot of
people swimming off events, but in
spite of that, it was a good meet.”

d Senior Blair Huffman led the

', Generals, winning three events.
Huffman swam to two victories in
successive events —- the 200 back-

’ II

‘N

 

 



 

\

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2002 ._

BASKETBALL TAKES COURT FOR 2002-03

1 K)L'R'lE.\\'Ol7bl’()Rl.\‘ lNK)K\l\"ll( ).\

TWO-GUARD. Sophomore Ian McClure contributed 6.2 points per game from the
backcourt as a freshman for the W/ashington and Lee men’s team in 2001-02.

BY DONNY BANKS
Sl’()lt'l'S \‘i’RlTl7.R

The Washington and Lee men’s
basketball team, which ﬁnished up last
season with an 8-17 overall record,
was picked to ﬁnish eighth out of 10
teams in the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference coaches’ poll released on
Oct. 3 1.

The Generals, however, haven’t
been frightened by this or by their
losing record in 2001-02. In fact, the
team seems to carry a lot of confi-
dence going into the new year.

And rightly so.

The Generals lost no senior dur-
ing the offseason, and, not surpris-
ingly, this year’s team should be re-
plete with experience.

Most of the Generals’ leadership
will stem from its three captains, se-
nior Scott Hetterman and juniors
Michael Denbow and Hamill Jones.

Hetterman, the squad’s lone se-
nior, has led the team in rebounding
the past two seasons and averaged

10.5 points per game last year.

“This is Scott’s senior year and
he will be playing with a certain sense
of urgency,” head coach Jeff Lafave
said. “He is very talented and will do
a lot for us this season. He’ll be espe-
cially valuable in bringing along some
of the younger guys. He knows how
things work in the league and will be
able to offer important advice.”

W&L combats small roster with talent

BY ERIN JULIUS
.\SSlSTv\.\'T SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee wrestling
welcomes back seven grapplers from
last year’s roster as the Generals look
to improve on their 3-7 record from
2001-02. '

Freshman Grant Krapf has joined
the team at the l33—pound class, but
W&L still has a couple of weight
classes to ﬁll.

“This season will be long in terms
of dual meets because we will be for-
feiting at least two weight classes,”
said senior co-captain Alex Poor, who
wrestles at 165 pounds.

Despite the lack of depth, 141-
pound senior co-captain John Polena
believes that the Generals are in for a
good season in the Centennial Con-
ference.

“We have a lot of talent on this
year’s team, and hopefully that will
translate into a number of conference
victories,” Polena said.

Veteran head coach Gary Franke
believes that W&L’s success in 2002-
03 will depend in part on the performance
of their senior leaders, Poor and Polena.
“We should get a lot of mileage out of
our two captains,” Franke said.

The Generals opened their sea-
son with the individual-only VMI
Keydet Invitational on Nov. 3 and
competed in the McDaniel Invitational
on Nov. 9. At McDaniel, a conference
opponent, W&L came away with one
win and four losses.

The team is also confident in the
ability of l84—pound junior Joe Mueller,
who won his weight class at the Cen-
tennial Conference Championships as
a freshman and placed third last year.

“He continues to win consis-
tently and has a good shot at win-

Denbow, who led the Generals in
assists his freshman and sophomore
years, and Jones, who averaged 5.2
points and 4.6 rebounds per game last
season, should also contribute sig-
nificantly.

In addition, expect a strong show-
ing from the sophomores, especially
the guys in the backcourt: guards
Mike Stuart, Ian McClure and Wes
McAdams. Stuart is an impressive
scorer who averaged 9.4 points a con-
test and shot a tearn-high 33 percent

. from three-point range.

McClure, who averaged 6.2
points per game, should add strength,
shooting and toughness, as he
played in all 25 games for the Gener-
als last season.

McAdams, who played only one
minute last season due to a shoulder
injury, will return healthy this year and
will likely make an impact immediately.

The other sophomores —Mark
Franceski, who led the team by shoot-
ing 53.8 percent from the ﬁeld; Patrick
Neuman, fresh from the football team;
and Valery Yankov —will contribute
as well.

Ifthe team is replete with experi-
ence, it is also ﬁlled with freshmen.
The Generals have added ﬁve fresh-
men to the roster this year, which
should add some fresh ability and an
optimistic attitude.

“All five of these guys bring
something unique to the table. I think

Men’s team osn’t heed low expectations

that they will follow the lead of our
upperclassmen and become a signiﬁ-
cant factor this season,” Lafave said.
“Also, given the talent and experience
of our upperclassmen, we can give
them some time to integrate into the
system, and we won’t have to throw
them right in like we did last season.”

Freshman forward Matt Lawless
shared his coach’s sentiment. “We
have some good skills and bring heart,
hard work and dedication to practice,”
Lawless said. “We’ll try to contribute
whenever we can.”

The Generals have a tough
schedule this year, playing nationally-
ranked ODAC foes Hampden-Sydney
and Randolph-Macon each twice.

“Obviously, it is always difficult
to see teams as tough as Hampden-
Sydney and Randolph-Macon mul-
tiple times in the regular season, but
we have a great team, and beating
teams such as these could really give
us a boost,” Lafave said.

In addition, the team will face a
formidable Division I foe in Davidson
in only their third game.

“We try to play a Division I op-
ponent every. year,” the coach said.
“The Davidson game should be a
great experience and, hopefully, as
competitive as our game against Wil-
liam & Mary last season, which we
lost by only 13 points.”

W&L will start the season with
the Tipoff Tournament on Nov. 22 at
home in the Warner Center. Lafave and
some of his players understand that
the crowds might be scarce at the
games because that Friday marks the
beginning of the Thanksgiving holi-
day, but the team still has its sights
set on winning the toumament.

“I think that winning the Tipoff
Tournament would be our first goal
of the season, and to have a sizeable
audience certainly wouldn’t hurt,”
Lafave said.

With experience, talent and positive
attitudes, the Generals will charge into
this season with good expectations.

No one is more conﬁdent and
optimistic than Lafave. “We’d like to
go into Christmas break with a win-
ning record,” he said. “After that,
we’ll aim for a good seeding in the
ODAC Tournament, and ultimately,
we’d like to win at least one game in
that toumament.”

Lafave added that these goals
were made by the team itself and that
the team found them very realistic.

Given what the team has going for
it, these goals seem very realistic, indeed.

TITLE Asi>IRATIoNs.]unior]oe Mueller looks to return to the
top of the Centennial Conference after winning the 184-pound

ning his second conference title,”
Poor said of Mueller.

Junior Michael Bennett, who
missed the previous.two seasons be-
cause of shoulder injuries, will replace
Ezra Morse at 197 pounds. Bennett
and Mueller each won four of their
ﬁve matches at McDaniel.

“Those two look to be the most
successful so far,” Franke said.

Sophomores Joshua Grahe (149
pounds) and Brian Avello (174), junior
Corey Little (157) and senior Jason Smee
(285) round out the Generals’ roster.

“While we are strongest at our
upper weights, we have good wres-

tlers throughout our lineup,” Poor
said. “If we have a few other guys
step up and really perform, especially
during the conference tournament, we
stand a chance of doing pretty well in
the conference this year.”

W&L doesn’t take the mat again
until Jan. 4. They now practice “ﬁve
to six days a week,” Franke said, “but
they have to have a day off.”

In practice, the Generals prepare
for matches by drilling and condition-
ing. “We work extremely hard as a
team. Wrestling as a sport requires a
lot of extra conditioning and dedica-
tion,” Poor said.

class in 2000-01. The Generals host the W&L Quadrarigular
on Jan. 4 in the Warner Center.

Generals enter transition year

Snyder takes over interim head coaching
duties for team that returns 2 starters and
was picked 10th out of 11 ODAC teams

BY DAVID CROWELL
.tSSlSTAN'l’ SPORTS EDITOR

With the sudden resignation of coach Janet Hollack
in the middle of August to pursue other coaching oppor-
tunities and the graduation of the school’s all-time lead-
ers in scoring and rebounding, Jessica Mentz, and
blocked shots, Megan Babst, the future of the Washing-
ton and Lee Women’s basketball program was uncertain.

When you consider the fact that only a handful of
girls were willing to play in 2002-03, you’d think the desk
of the new head coach would require a bottle of aspirin.

But interim head coach Bryan Snyder, who just fm-
ished coaching the W&L volleyball team to another NCAA
Division IH Tournament appearance, seems upbeat and
enthusiastic about the coming season. He understands
why it was important that he accept the temporary job.

“I think the most important thing is that this be-
comes a good experience for the ladies, and I think that’s
why they asked me to take this position, to maintain
some continuity,” he said. “I’m someone that they’re
familiar with and I know the program, I know the kids, I
know the university.”

Being a part of the program as an assistant coach
for two seasons, Snyder is also familiar with the immense
role that Mentz and Babst, along with Sarah Schmidt
and Carter Thomas, played in molding W&L Women’s
basketball.

Mentz, a two—time Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence Player of the Year, averaged 20 points and 11.8
rebounds per game last season. Babst used her tall frame
to dominate the inside and averaged 19 points and 10.1
rebounds a contest.

Schmidt converted on over 40 percent of her three-
point attempts, and Thomas was the emotional leader.

The first goal for Snyder and the Generals to over-
come will be an adjustment regarding offensive strategy.
Snyder admits that his team lacks sufﬁcient size to bang
the ball into the middle on every possession.

“We don’t have a lot of size, so offensively we’re
going to utilize screens and we’ll be a little more perim-
eter-orientated than last year,” he said. “We’re going to
try to be a little more balanced.”

He also hopes that the team can use their strength
at the guard position to “free up some of our better ath-
letes to drive one—on-one from the wings.”

Leading the Generals on the floor will be sopho-
more point guard Bethany Dannelly, who led the ODAC
in assists by dishing out 5.85 per game as a freshman.

The two captains of the team are also the lone se-

niors, Elizabeth Igo and Austin Calhoun. Snyder de— .

scribed the key role they played in the offseason.

“From the moment we got beat in the ODAC Tour-
nament, they took it on as their team. They have pushed
everyone in the offseason workouts and were involved
in the coaching transition,” Snyder said. “They have a
lot invested in this program and from the work ethic
standpoint, they will lead by example.”

In addition, the Generals return sophomore forward
Emily Barker, who started last season, and junior guard

(ft lL'Kll*.\\'()l~' DR )Kl.\ l.\'l()l{\ l‘iTl0N

ENHANCED ROLE. Senior co-captain Elizabeth Igo will see
more playing time after averaging 13.8 minutes a contest
off the bench for the Generals last year.

Heather Coleman. Snyder described Coleman as a player
“who goes out and isn’t intimidated by other people,
plays hard and does what we ask her.”

Snyder will depend on his players to do whatever is
necessary, since they will be playing the first few games
with only eight players in uniform. He assumes that the
freshmen will get plenty of minutes — especially Louisa
Feve, who will start at the two- guard position, but might
need to play in the post.

The Generals will also need to work together and do ,

what is necessary in order to compensate for a lack of
size on defense. ,

“We’re going to need to give a lot of help, because
I don’t think we are great at matching up with other
teams one-on-one in the inside,” Snyder said. “We don’t
have the size or experience to play with some of the
better post players, so we’ll try to give as much help as
possible to make teams beat us in other ways.”

With the lack of pressure that Snyder has put on
himself, he has some very simple goals for his team.

“I want us to be as competitive as we can be,” he
said. “I want to keep in place and build on last year’s
good work ethic, dedication, pride in the university and
our program so that whoever they hire as the full—time
coach won’t have to rebuild a fresh base and can worry
about on-court coaching.”

W&L SPORTS SCHEDULEZ Nov. 22-DEC. 4

Friday, Nov. 22
Men’s Swimming

 

Saturday, Nov. 23
Cross Country

Sunday, Nov. 24

Salem International at W&L, 5 p.m.
Women’s Basketball (Scranton Tournament)
W&L vs. Stockton, 6 p.m.

Men’s Basketball (Tipoff Tournament)
Daniel Webster at W&L, 8 p.m.

W&L at NCAA Nationals, TBA

Men’s Basketball (Tipoff Tournament)
Averett/Washington at W&L, 1 or 3 p.m.
Women’s Basketball

W&L in Scranton Tournament

Women’s Swimming

W&L at Bryn Mawr, 2 p.m.

Men’s and Women’s Swimming
W&L at College of New Jersey, 11 a.m.

Tuesday, Nov. 26
Women’s Basketball
W&L at Randolph Macon WomarI’s, 7 p.m.

Saturday, Nov. 30
Men’s Basketball
W&L at Davidson, 3 p.m.

Monday, Dec. 2

Women’s Basketball

Bridgewater at W&L, 6 p.m.

Men’s Basketball

Southern Virginia at W&L, 8:30 p.m.

Wednesday, Dec. 4

Women’s Basketball

Emory & Henry at W&L, 6:30 p.m.
Men’s Swimming

W&L at VMI, 7 pm

Men’s Basketball

Guiltord at W&L, 8:45 p.m.

<r>IIirII3s\'OI:SIx)irI.slI\I<>IIIituIOrv'

McDaniel, formerly Western

Iltlllnllll with liig-time olticia.

use state-oi-the-an euuinment.

associate with saaw GOIIIIIBIIV.

exnerience Phi culture. X4060

Happy Thanksgiving & Christmas!

1

 

Maryland, has won the conference
title the past three seasons. “They’re
looking to take a fourth title,” Poor
said. “But Muhlenberg has some ex-
tremely talented individuals and might
be ready to make a run next year.”

Although W&L still has a couple
of vacancies on its roster, the Gener-
als anticipate a strong showing in
2002-03.

“It’s a good program, and it’s
going to get better and better,” Krapf
said. “The captains are great guys,
really motivated and trying to get the
team together.”

LOOK YOUR BEST Fora THE HOLIDAYS.’

Come by and see Skip, Marla, Connie and Wilson.

SKIP THOMPSON’S
BARBER SHOP

22 S. Main Street. Lexington, VA
Open Mon., Tues., Thurs., & Fri. 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
Sat. 8 a.m. - noon; Closed Wed. & Sun. T
540-463-5954 ‘

    

 

