ta E18-755
F2 552
\l- /05

.‘Good Morning
America’ says

goodbye for now

" National broadcast rescheduled for spring

 

PHI

  

JAMES G. LD‘IE;‘..§~i  - «-
WASi-€it%W%*?T:I't 3.  
 I '3 9'   :f:».v45-o

OCT 3 ‘I 2092

VOLUME CV, No.XIl
MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2002

The rrrrderrr voice of Warhrrgror and lire Urrrrerrzh rirrre 7897 CD Orr/irre at: 12>/92122//rr.m’rr

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Camera-happy students and residents may have
' to put away their makeup and hairbrushes until spring.
ABC’s ‘Good Morning America’ has temporarily re-
scheduled its Nov. 11 Lexington broadcast for the

spring.

Last Wednesday, the broadcasting company re-
scheduled the Lexington show from its Nov. 11 live
date because of the recent sniper threats and killings in

the Virginia area, officials said.

Lexington was originally chosen to represent the
state of Virginia in the ‘SO States—One Nation-One Year’
series because of its historic roots, many 18th— and
19th-century buildings, well—preserved Main Street,
and views of the Blue Ridge and Allegheny mountains,

ABC ofﬁcials said.

The spring broadcast should mirror the planned
Nov. 11 show including live interviews with students
and faculty members from Washington and Lee Uni-
versity and Virginia Military Institute, Lexington resi-
dents and taped segments from other parts of the

state.

Ofﬁcials were uncertain at press time whether last
Thursday’s arrests of John Allen Muhammad and John
Lee Malvo in connection with the Virginia, Maryland
and Washington, D.C. sniper shootings will affect their
recent decision to postpone the Lexington broadcast
of ‘Good Morning America.’ Afinal decision should be
made this week as to when the taping will be made and

broadcast.

BY ANDREW LATIMER
NEWS EDITOR

When is five minutes not ﬁve minutes?
Students here might be surprised to learn

ton Hall. Hourly bells are timed using
Lee Chapel’s AC—powered clock

equipment.

Power outages can knock both sys-
tems off the mark, even though both

Record numbers rid Pare eekend

JEE BROOKS / The Ring-/um P/ii

CROONED. “Soundrnan” Bobby Smith sang along with members of Right On, the band that entertained parents, students
and faculty during the school—sponsored tailgate activity Saturday afternoon before the football game against Sewanee. The
tailgate was one of many activites students and parents could attend during the 48th Parents Weekend at W&L.

Campus clocks toll irregul

   

erly

BY MmHEW MCDERMOIT
EDITOR IN CHIEF

 

‘ JEB BROOKS / The Ring-tum P/ii
RICE. Nelly Rice has helped plan Parents Weekend for 11 years

BY ANDREW LATIMER
NEWS raorrorr

The 48th Parents Weekend, successful from 1955,
acheived an unusally large draw of 2,500 family members
this year, said coordinator Nellie Rice, secretary to the
Dean of Students.

“There were a lot of parents there,” said junior Victoria
Guroian, who saw many of the 1,100 families that regis-
tered in Fairfax Lounge. “Everything seemed to go
smoothly, thanks to (Rice).”

Rice has coordinated Parents Weekend since 1991,
when the Dean of Students Office took over its planning
from the Development Office.

Guroian was one of approximately 20 students who
helped Rice and the Dean of Students Ofﬁce with the event.

“I probably couldn’t do it without the students,” Rice said.

Tlieﬁeshmenclassboastedtlrelargestnurnberofatteridees.

“I’m excited. My parents are on their way. We’re go-
ing to cocktail parties and they are going to meet my ad-
viser,” said freshman Cameron Todd.

Not all freshmen were thrilled by their parents’ appearance.

“A few [freshmen] are worried about what their par-
ents are going to see,” said Dorm Counselor Robert Floyd.
“In general, it’s just a weekend for students to show their
parents around campus and Lexington.”

“It looks like everyone really enjoyed themselves this
year,” Rice said.

HRA spearheads ood drive

Former-BFA works to raise two ions of food for needy local families

sororities. It also obtained Dean of Students
David Howison’s permission to label the event
an ofﬁcial W&L activity.

 

 

that the traditional hourly chimes of Lee
Chapel do not necessarily make them late
Q for class.

The Ring-tum Phi has learned that
two sets of bells that students and fac-
ulty alike rely upon for the beginning and
end of class are neither on the same sys-
tem nor regularly synchronized to one an-
other.

Informal observations conducted
by this newspaper show that the inter-
: val between rings varies from 3 min. and
30 sec. to 3 min. 50 see. from day to
day.

Most students may not notice the sec-
onds slipping away each day, but a number
of them have had doubts about the bells’
accuracy for some time.

“They never ring on time. I think
this is important. Such little details are
4; important in the smooth operation of

our daily lives,” said sophomore Ivan
Velev.

The five—till bell, which sounds si-

multaneously from the top of Washing-

" ton Hall and in the academic buildings

to signify the end of a class period, is

controlled by equipment in Washing-

systems have backup provisions in
place.

For years, Physical Plant was respon-
sible for setting both systems. Yet a com-
puterized timer replaced when the old
chime mechanism in Lee Chapel in Aug.
1998, the duty of monitoring the chapel
fell upon University Computing Technical
Services.

Technical Services reports that com-
plaints were received “all the time” be-
fore the overhaul four years ago. No offi-
cial grumblings have been heard by Tech-
nical Services since the replacement.

Technical Services also recognizes
that the Lee Chapel clock has been 35 sec.
slow for about a month. Errors greater than
one minute are usually corrected within a
few days. Any adjustments have to be
made manually.

The staff sets the Chapel bells against
Universal Coordinated Time, not against
Washington Hall’s system.

No plans have been made to synchro-
nize the ﬁve-minute and hourly bells. For
the time being, students and faculty will
have to pick one chime or the other to gov-
ern their lives.

jizri BROOKS / Tire Ring-/um P/11'
FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLIS. Lee Chapel’s bells
misguide harried students hurrying to class.

Area families in want may be getting a tur-
key and a month’s worth of food, if the Human
Rights Alliance gets the volunteers it needs.

The Human Rights Alliance, recently
known as the Black Female Alliance, is embark-
ing on a Thanksgiving food drive to benefit
needy people in Lexington and Buena Vista.

“The point is community building, not just
W&L students, but all of the community ben-
efiting the needy community,” said junior
Melanie Barr, the HRA member who is coordi-
nating the effort.

The HRA is working with the local NAACP
chapter, the Catholic Campus Ministry, and the
N abors Services League. Rockbridge High
School should also soon join the food drive,
now that Principal Andrew Bryan has approved
its participation. Also Eric Owsley, community
service coordinator, and Harlan Beckley, Shep-
herd Poverty Program director, “have given us
sound advice,” Barr said.

Though planning began last summer, an
Oct. 30th event will kickoff the drive.

There HRA members will answer remaining
questions and solicit funds and volunteers.

To prepare the ground, however, the HRA
has sent letters to the president of every stu-
dent organization, including fraternities and

“Our goal is to supply a month’s worth of
food to every family,” Barr said. This includes
the traditional Thanksgiving turkey.

Planning was intense for this event, which
is expected to encompass over 3,000 homes.

HRA members poured over street maps of
Lexington and Buena Vista, marking down
houses and dividing them into routes. In No-
vember each house on the route will receive a
paper bag and a ﬂyer announcing the pick-up
date. I
On that day, volunteers will collect the
canned goods and bring them to the Nabors
Sefvice Suite in Gaines, where they will be sorted.
The HRA will have asked local churches to pro-
vide the names of needy families. These farrrilies
will receive the accumulated food.

Any surplus food will be given to local food
banks.

“We want this to become an annual event,”
Barr said. The HRA, however, does not neces-
sarily have to run the program in the future.

“This could make a great high school pro-
gram,” Barr said. “Or another club could direct it
next year.”

HRA member Marinda Harrell modeled the
program on a similar one run by at her Baltimore
high school, Archbishop Carroll.

Democrats

increase activism

University Compuling gives no hurrahs to KaZaA

BY KATIE ]. HOWELL
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Washington and Lee students
continued to show their interest in
political activism last week when more
than 80 students signed up to be part
of the rejuvenated Young Democrats
organization.

“(Young Democrats is a neces-
sary organization) for this campus
especially because (the campus) is
so traditionally conservative,” said
sophomore Joanna Persio, Young
Democrats’ current organizer. “You
can’t learn much on a campus
where one political group is as
prominent as College Republicans
is at W&L.”

Persio said, however, that the
large numbers of students in-
volved with College Republicans
this year is what spurred the new
interest in Young Democrats, as
opposed to interest in recent
years.

“When the report came out
with the huge numbers of students
interested in College Republicans, I
think people realized the need for
varying opinions and activism,”
Persio said.

Persio said she began organizing
potential members after speaking with
past officers of the political group.
They encouraged her to seek interest
from the W&L community. Using cam-
pus notices, ﬂyers and a table at the
Co-op, Persio and other interested
students gathered names and ideas
from potential members.

Persio said 87 students
signed up to be a part of the or-
ganization.

“We had a really good re-
sponse,” she said. “We weren’t ex-
pecting nearly that many people to
sign up.”

The democrat political organi-
zation historically has been active
on the W&L campus. Persio said
Dean Courtney Penn was a member

when he was a student in the early
1990s.

Young Democrats plans to in-
crease activism this year by helping
with Mimi Elrod’s campaign for the
24th District Virginia House of Del-
egates election on Nov. 5. Persio said
they also plan to start a democratic
publication on campus.

“We would also like to do
some joint activities with College
Republicans,” Persio said. “We
want to go together before the EC
to try to get the rule changed so
we can get money for political or-
ganizations on campus. We also
might have a joint golf tourna-
ment.”

Persio said the group will have
more structure and ideas after their
first organizational meeting on
Wednesday.

“We need to get the demo-
cratic opinion out there so we are
not all republican all the time,”
Persio said.

BY ANDREW LATIMER
NEWS EDITOR

File sharing continues to clog the university’s con-
nection to the Internet, but not in the way most students
might think.

The problem is not downloading music and movies,
according to University Computing Directory of Techni-
cal Services Thomas Tinsley ’75.

“What we do care about is students offering their
ﬁles to the world at the expense of our bandwidth,” he
said. His concern is that students are granting access to
too many outsider users.

The problem could soon approach last year’s emer-
gency levels, mostly due to the latest version of the
popular file swapping application dubbed KaZaA.

Last fall, University Computing implemented a
$15,000 system, called Packeteer, to limit the amount of
the network that students could use to share files. The
measures led to slower download speeds and some frus-
trated students, but overall network performance im-
proved.

“Our goal has been to make the connection useful
to the university,” Tinsley said. ’

The new KaZaA 2.0 masks its ﬁles as World Wide
Web data to skirt the university restrictions. T insley

currently estimates that 60 percent of all outgoing traffic
can be traced back the new KaZaA.

Some abusers can hog up to 16 percent of the
system without knowing it. University Computing can
keep track of the top 20 offenders and occasionally
sends e-mails to students that tell them to cut back
their usage.

University Computing HelpDesk employee Jason
Williams, senior, said that even experienced computer
users can be fooled by the tricky KaZaA. “(It) is just one
step away from a virus,” he stated.

Williams recently developed a program that he hopes
will alleviate the network’s congestion woes.

The patch, which is available for download at http:/
/helpdesk.wlu.edu, automatically conﬁgures KaZaA in
order to free up the most bandwidth. Installing the appli-
cation is voluntary but highly encouraged if you run-
ning the updated KaZaA.

“It’s kind of ridiculous that we’re bringing (the net-
work) to its knees,” Williams said.

Other help might be on the way. Forthcoming up-
dates to the university’s Packeteer system should cut
down on traffic.

Washington and Lee University has not made file
sharing illegal, and Tinsley did not indicate that policies
will drastically change any time soon.

 

 

PAGE 2



GSA crusade a worthy enterprise

Washington and Lee’s Gay-Straight Alli-
ance has avoided many mistakes that similar
organizations at other colleges have fallen
prey to:

It is not a recruiting organ for homosexu-
ality.

It does not urge Admissions to admit a
certain quota of altematively-oriented indi-
viduals.

It does not go out of its way to offend the
school’s conservative social mores, perhaps
by holding a gaudy parade outside of registra-
tion for Parents Weekend.

Rather, GSA hopes that W&L students
will become more accepting of their peers who
have decided to be more open about their pref-
erences.

Few people would claim that W&L’s stu-
dent culture suffers from heterogeneity run
amuck. Many of the standard jokes revolve
around our carbon-copy cars, clothes and cus-
toms. This is not an nonconforrnist student
body.

Often, however, these similarities are
adopted for convenience: students paper-over
differences to ward off potential opprobrium.
Sexual preference is the clearest example of this.

Is it possible that out of 1700 undergradu-
ates, not one is gay? Not even one bisexual?
Not even one questioning if he is? Don’t be
ridiculous. W&L has homosexuals and bisexu-
als, there’re just in the closet.

Sadly, there are many pragmatic reasons
for this. How many gays could rush a sorority
or fraternity? How many close friends could
they make? How many could head mainstream
campus organizations?

Let us remember what happened when it
came out during election time that Jeff Cook,
prospective Executive Committee president,
was gay. He had to endure a candidate’s
“teletubbies” comments and his promise “to
be straight” with his supporters.

You do not need to approve of homosexu-
ality, either personally or religiously. However,
just because a majority disagrees with a group
does not translate to a right to impose their
preferences on them.

For instance, a majority at W&L drinks
regularly. That does not mean that binge-drink-
ers should round up teetotalers and force them
to quaff pints of brew. Likewise undergradu-
ate Carry A. Nations should not swarm fra-
ternity houses with hatchets.

The GSA is asking for tolerance, an admi-
rable goal. There is no reason why the W&L
student body should not want the entire com-
munity to feel comfortable during a happy four
years here.

This is not about some administrator collect-
ing another minority group for an admissions bro-
chure. Rather, it is about being civil enough that
sexual orientation ceases to matter at all.

 

THE  

Editors in chief Matthew B. McDem1ott
Katie J. Howell
Andrew Latimer
Irnran Naeemullah
Catherine C. Guy
Jeremy Franklin
Dave Crowell

J eb Brooks
Barrett Daws
Tallie Jamison
Paul Seifert
Thomas Worthy
Emily Barker
Henry Grimball
McQueen Calvert

News Editor
Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Sports Editor
Asst. Sports Editor
Photo Editor
Photographers

Business Manager
Asst. Business Manager
Advertising Production

Circulation Director
Advertising Assistant

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editors in chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. AH submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

Annual Subscription Rate: $35

THE RING-TUM PH].

PINIONS

DIVERSITY: Is it for Washington and Lee?—

L\lR\NNILlLiH
OPINIONS EDITOR
EMA11; NAEntrrrAH1@wrrE)Ul

MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2002

Although the 20th century was generally one of great change for Washington and Lee, especially with the advent of coeducation in 1985 , few issues

have been as controversial or as hotly debated as the “diversity question.” Some feel that the above question is redundant because diversity is.’

imperative; their opponents counter that diversity is unnecessary. Still others feel that while diversity is important, the definition of what constitutes
“diversity” varies. The Ring-tum Phi invites the W&L community to further discuss and analyze diversity, and its value at the university.

EC allocates excessive funds to minorities

Several weeks ago, when we when
looked at the campus groups that had been
given funding by the Executive Committee,
the ﬁrst thing that most of us undergradu-
ates asked was, “What is SBA,” then a few
days or weeks later we ﬁgired out that it is
the Student Bar Association and we under-
stood that law students make up a signiﬁ-
cant portion of the school; law students pay
the same student activity fees that we
do.Then, we moved on with our lives.

certain identiﬁable, if not exclusionary, group
that I make this argument.

No group asking for funding with an ex-
clusionary title such as General’s Christian
Fellowship or College Republicans was given
any funding at all. This is despite the fact that
these are two of the largest organizations on
campus. Some would justly reply that the MSA
is using this funding in order to help encour-
age diversity on campus, not for their social
gatherings, which are funded by a member-

As we continued to ship fee of $30. However, one
look at the budget allo— FREE THOUGHTS must ask “What keeps Campus
cations, since both the Republicans from bringing in
Phi and the Trident re— RYAN OWEN ‘03 their own speakers?”Iwouldbe

ported them in various
ways over three weeks, not to mention a Carn-

pus Notice or two, we realized that most of

the groups receiving a high level of funding
such as the Student Activities Board and
Contact, are appointed by the Executive Com-
mittee which is elected by the Student Body
or chosen by professors like Mock Conven-
tion. I even checked with EC President and
third-year law student Gerald Titus to see how
the leadership of SBA is determined. Ifound
out that their classmates elect them. There is
one organization that received an extraordi-
narily high level of frmding, yet is not of a
broad interest to this campus, nor is it elected
or appointed by anyone, the Minority Stu-
dent Association (MSA).

The MSA was given $14,500 in order to
fund their programming events and Caba-
ret. This is the fifth largest funding given to
any group on campus. Each student pays a
Student Activities Fee of $87.50 per semes-
ter or, $175 a year. The portion of this fee
that is currently going to MSA is about $7.25.

Aside from this “Student Activity Fee”
support from the Executive Committee, the
MSA receives direct support the from the
university in various forms, including the
Chavis House on Lee Avenue. They have
failed to “fill the house” this year. If any
fraternity were in this situation, it would be
asked to reimburse the university for the
empty beds. One might point to a sort of
social engineering at work in order to ex-
plain this apparent discrepency.

Some people on the Washington and
Lee Campus, particularly minorities, will criti-
cize me for making an argument directed at a
group of certain identiﬁable persons. Don’t
be mistaken. I fault the Executive Committee
for giving such a large portion of our scarce
funding to such a group just as much as I
fault that group for asking for “around
$20,000.” It is for the reason that they are a

hard for the EC to prove that they
have not given “a leg up” in the form of guid-
ance to the MSA when they have submitted
their budget requests in the past. Perhaps if
fraternities and political organizations had the
same assistance we could divert student ac-
tivity fees to these groups as well.

Need I remind everyone that we already
have organizations like PRIDE, the Gay-
StraightAl1iance, KEWL, and SAII_. who serve
similar functions with a much smaller budget,
yet these groups usually experience much
larger and more diverse attendance? How can
the Executive Committee really justify that the
campus needs so much diversity education

"that we spend 108 students’ student activity

fees for this purpose.

Most students feel that bringing public
speakers to campus is a function already well
served by Contact. Even Contact must won-
der why MSA was given so much funding
to bring in diversity speakers when bring-
ing in diverse speakers was one of their
goals for the year as well. Contact has more
experience recruiting quality speakers than
does MSA, not to mention that they are
much better at promoting and attracting an
audience. Please note that the last speaker
MSA brought to campus, Ruben Everett, for
Hispanic Heritage Month did not have a
large turnout according to Kaela Harmon,
vice president of MSA. Nor does their big-
ger armual Black History Month speaker.
Also, know that MSA declined to tell me
what their expenses were in bringing Mr.
Everett to campus, as they also declined to
let me see their budget request form, which
they submitted to the Executive Committee
when asking for funding. When consider-
ing the budgets of Contact and MSA it seems
that quite a lot of “activity” money coming
from the “Student Activity Fee” just goes to
the activity of sitting around listening to
other people talk.

Change must come from students

World peace—we all want it, but now
more than ever, it seems more beyond our
reach with all the conflicts wreaking havoc
both in the United States and in other na-
lions. Why is there so much unrest? It oc-

curs to me that when you get to the root of

these issues, the underlying reasons for
these conﬂicts seems to be a

the gays; it is because we are a group of
ignorant people, myself included. Every-
body stereotypes everybody else, and
that is perfectly norrnal—it is human na-
ture. However, it is not normal to play
on these prejudices. It is absolutely nec-
essary to get all the facts straight before

transforming a simple

strong depreciation of other TRAN OF THOUGHT temporary stereotype
cultures and people, thereby ‘ into a permanent label
a deep displacency for diver- TRAN KIM  of a person’s character.

sity. In Bosnia, Rwanda,

Croatia, the Middle East-—in most of the
conﬂicts ravaging people around the world,
the problems arise from irreconcilable eth-
nic, religious, and cultural differences. Death
and destruction seem to be the going price
for humanity’s inability to recognize and
value the presence of differences in society.
It is too high a price.

As concerned as I am about the lack of

diversity in the world forum, I am more pre-
occupied with how this issue affects the
W&L campus. Over the recent years, diver-
sity has become the forefront of discussions
pertaining to the changes occurring at W&L.
It is no secret that W&L has an unfortunate
and slightly over-exaggerated reputation of
being a campus where minorities and the
“different” people are not welcomed by
open arms. Past occurrences such as the
Idaho t-shirt and the black faces incidences
attest to this notion. However, I would con-
sider these to be the extreme examples of
prejudicial ignorance here and highly doubt
that it represents the majority of the student
body. Over the years many changes have
occurred on the W&L campus to mitigate
the negative consequences of being a mi-
nority (this refers to being a minority in ev-
ery area, not just in race). But W&L still has
a long ways to go before it can truly be la-
beled a diverse campus.

The main problem with the lack of di-
versity here is not that the whites don’t
like the blacks or the straights don’t like

We are here to
learn, and as students and as young
adults, this is one of the most important
learning periods of our lives. The col-
lege—years have been deemed as an im-
portant period in life where people ﬁnd
themselves to ﬁgure out how they fit
into this big world. One of the lessons
we are here to learn is about mankind.
This involves investigation and research
through interaction and experience. You
cannot possibly know a person or any-
thing about that person without having
interacted with that individual yourself.
Word of mouth is 99 percent opinion and
possibly one percent factual. Just like
we wouldn’t easily believe someone’s
word that D-hall food is gourmet cook-
ing, we should not easily believe that
someone is “weir 

The W&L faculty and adrninistra—
tion can take as many measures as nec-
essary to increase diversity and thereby
increase students’ value for it, but the
majority of the work lies with us, the stu-
dent body. In the real world, different
people from various backgrounds must
work and live together. Being able to do
this means having the foresight and wis-
dom to be open-rninded and personally
motivated to learn about others. It is a
foolish thing to not acquire the skill of
valuing others because we are con-
stantly in contact with other people. And
none of us wants to be a fool.

1’

.53 T?

(I)LRIEB\'('At\ﬂlH.lPE\XlL‘Hld

OVERREPRESENTED. Despite serving a small percentage of W&L’s population, the MSA receives
high  It usurps funds other campus groups with similar aims deserve to receive.

I carmot argue that the funding given
to MSA for the Jazz Cabaret they sponsor
in February of each year was not dutifully
allocated. This is an event, which is well
established and serves a larger portion of
the W&L student body. Since MSA would
not really tell me much about their bud-
get, I can’t say how much they spend on
this event, but I believe somewhere around
$1000 would be justiﬁable, keeping the
budgets of other organizations in mind.

In order to try and delve into the
psyche of the EC, I asked Gerald Titus,
“How much do you consider the size of a
group when allocating funding?” He went
so far as to tell me that EC “does consider
a student organization’s size” when mak-
ing allocations. In order to justify funding
to smaller organizations, he went on to say
that the EC must also look at other factors
such as: the organization’s providing a criti-
cal services that would not otherwise be
met, how many students the organization
serves, and the “organization’s financial
responsibility and the utility with which
they have used the money the EC has given
them in the past.”

I don’t agree that the Minority Stu-
dent Association really fulﬁlls any of the
considerations the EC President men-
tioned. The “critical service” that the MSA
is serving by bringing speakers to campus
is being met by Contact. The organization
is not serving very many students as at-

tendance at their events proves. Despite hav- ’
ing been given a consistently high level of
funding, MSA’s event programming has not
proven itself to be of great utility, and their
unwillingness to share their budget request,
or any spending information forces me to call
into question their responsibility.

I do believe that MSA is a necessary
group for the minority students of this carn-
pus, especially with regards to their social‘
activities. Everyone should know that their
dues, not EC allocations, pay for these activi-
ties. I strongly feel that we should not deny
support to this organization, but at the same
time, I quite possibly feel even more strongly
that we should not entrust to them and rely
so heavily upon them to bring diverse speak-
ers to campus.

I don’t want this article to be just an—l'
other criticism that doesn’t offer a solution to
anyone other than, people who created the
problem, so here are two things that each and
every W&L student can do. First of all, let
Gerald Titus and the other members of the EC
know that you don’t support the way the Ex-
ecutive Committee is currently allocating your
student activities fees. Secondly, consider this
issue when the White Book Review Comrnit- 74
tee calls for student suggestions later this
year, as they amend the powers and respon-
sibilities of the Executive Committee. Person-
ally, I feel it would be better to have separate
bodies governing our honor system and our '
budgetary allocations.

F

MSA is best vehicle for diversity .

Washington and Lee prides itself
on its academic standards, civility
and building of one’s character. A di-
versity initiative, as it should be, is a
part of this institution’s mission.

At a meeting of the Committee
for a More Inclusive
Community in late
May, I had the privi-

VOICE or DIFFERENCE
MEREDITH KING ‘O3

is geographically, socially, and eco-
nomically diverse but uniﬁed as “an
aristocracy of talent.” It imposes no
other barriers to admission. ‘
The way I interpret this statement
is diversity is an essential component
of a liberal arts edu-
cation——it means’
understanding,

lege of hearing Presi-
dent Tom Burish’s view on diversity
in a speech entitled “Challenging
Tradition Respectfully.” The three
main points of his talk:

1. Diversity is a civic obliga-
tion that W&L should adopt;

2. A W_&L education should
permeate all segments of society; and

3. Diversity is an essential com-
ponent of a liberal arts education.

As I listened to Dr. Burish, I was
struck by the fact that our views are
very much in alignment. His com-
ments warmed my heart and reaf-
firmed my faith in this great institu-
tion. I am most impressed with Dr.
Burish’s awareness of the need for
institutions such as W&L to be all-
inclusive, especially since the demo-
graphics of our nation are changing
so rapidly. He exhibited a genuine
concern for all students here at W&L.

Diversity is a civic obligation,
not only for administrators, profes-
sors, and staff members at W&L, but
the entire student body. When we re-
ceived our acceptance letters, the
university’s expectations were crys-
tal clear. Contained in the college’s
mission is the following: Washington
and Lee is selective in its enrollment
of students. It chooses young men
and women with the highest quali-
ties of intellect, character, and the
promise offuture achievement, and
it seeks to create a student body that

communicating, and
appreciating all individuals and soci-
ety at large. As a private institution,
W&L sets academic standards that?‘
public institutions strive to attain. In
this respect, should not W&L set a
diversity standard for all institutions,
whether public or private? I think so!’

The Minority Student Association
is a vehicle in which W&L can remain
focused on fulfilling its commitment
to diversity. Though the university is
making many strides in this area, thereﬂ
is still much work left undone.
Through the financial support MSA
receives, we can be proactive in
bringing in guest speakers and offer-
ing cultural and social events that will
help to increase awareness.

We all must work toward appreciat-
ing and being aware of the differences
that certain populations of students!
bring to the college, recognizing that stu-
dents may encounter unique challenges
in higher education because of race, gen-
der, age, social class, sexual orientation,
and physical ability. Everyone in an aca—‘
demic environment must be committed
to removing the barriers that can prevent
members of underrepresented groups
from completing their baccalaureate dew
gree in a timely and efficient manner.

If, in your opinion that is wrong, I
offer no apologies. However, as W&L
scholars, we should be willing to work
toward promoting openness and ac-
ceptance of all, despite differences.

 

      
  
 
  
 
   
       
 
 
  

”' A. . ' » _ 'Fhe"newfWash.ingm.n Fast %E1ect.ro.nic E:iiticm_Li.s tiie perfect way as get The Past when yi:~u'1ive c-:'.1ts:i»de the % ' _V  
4 "heme deliveryr area... "when §mu*Ife at »sch.oaI_... and when you %s.ti3;I want ts »e.r1jc3r.zhe leak, fee and.c:o_ruext.
(if The Pxzstfs p '.nt.-ed: 331.. ’  ’  .,

  

Ge-t.i:de1ivea*e~d_ di gtaliy ta your‘computer or map first :31 lfkg every 111.0‘
" _ ' ' aarm, ufﬁce, anywhere. ‘ A 4 L

     

 

 

 

   

   

' .ike‘1"h£.-. ?os1¢: because it is The Fast. ‘ V V ‘ _ »  _ 
‘ 3- tal repiiaé at the riayﬁa ‘print ediﬁen. * 1
' {nciudas articies, photos, -mniumniﬁts, —ccamic:s, graph "as aw ads. A   
n
V Searchahie and 1'1t.aracﬁ’ve.. — . _ _ ' -  ._ _.
, h See haw right the  :3 ing feels wiath. The Was'hi::gmn Po1st.d.eli1irerev:i yﬁur way; —ev§=ry d.ay..  . L * % 7

v ' y .

. an on: more abut Te washing”: ms: %&eI:tmIic Edam       A
incl may now you wt get it FREE for IweTweehs—at    %      4

  Imn=I .wasII ea sun

A _ X7’

 

 

PAGE 4

 
 

Chinese nationalism burns ﬁercely

Last weekend was crowded with touring of
Beijing’s tourist hot spots. Naturally, we paid a visit
to the square, squat, just plain ugly Chairman Mao
Mausoleum. Rumor is that, in fact, the uninspiring
building completely ruins Tiananmen Square’s feng
shui. Nonetheless, tens of thousands of Chinese line
up everyday to file past the corpse in its crystal coffin
and worship at the altar of government-encouraged
Mao worship. Later that day, we visited a wax museum
on the other side of the square that boasted a likeness
of Mao. Now, I certainly wouldn’t question the
authenticity of the body in the “Mao-soleum,” but,
after 26 years on display, the corpse looks a whole lot
like the wax statue across the street.

Another stop on our whirlwind tour of the city was
the Great Hall of the People, where the Communist Party
meets for its quintennial congresses. As an aside, if you’re
interested in a fun location for the next family reunion, it
has been rented out to foreign groups for
conventions.

The tour of the Great Hall mainly
snakes through halls in which the
provincial and province-level city officials meet during
the Congresses. Each is decorated with images of
animals, landmarks or products unique to the province.
All tolled, there are 31 of the halls, one each for China’s
26 provinces, plus the four autonomous cities and one
for Taiwan.

Naturally, the hall for Taiwan sits empty because the
virtually independent island sends no delegates to
meetings of the Chinese Communist Party. Sunday, I
departed for an excursion to Tibet. The situations of these
two independent nations, one under the boot of
communist oppression, the other not, yet, led me to
consider the problem of Chinese nationalism.

Unlike during Mao’s rule, the Chinese people, even
party members, are, by and large, not inspired by the CPC.
In fact, our professors are pleased to point out how free
one is to criticize the Party and do so frequently.

However, they never give an inch in conceding China’s
greatness or superiority. Today, it is not revolutionary
zeal that inspires the masses, but a firm belief in China’s
role as the “Middle Kingdom” and a ﬁerce desire to see
her economically, rriilitary and culturally atop the world.
The CPC continues to rule because its success with the
economic reforms and spectacles such as the Olympics
has convinced most Chinese that one—party rule is the

LIVE FROM BEIJING of the last
BREIT T. KIRWAN ‘04

This jingoism manifests itself most troublingly in Tibet
and Taiwan. Tibet, previous to 1955, was an autonomous
country essentially ruled by the Dalai Lama. But whatever
it was, it was most certainly not a province of China.
Nonetheless, Mao sent in the PLA to subjugate the nation
and to this day, the legitimate government of Tibet and
the Dalai Lama live in exile. Buddhist temples throughout
Beijing, many of which are maintained by the government
to preserve a facade of “religious freedom,” all proclaim
that the temples are examples of the long history and
inseparability of Tibet from the rest China. In a way, tl1ey’re
right on both counts. China and Tibet share a long history
of being neighbors and Tibet will be inseparable as long
as the Communist Party maintains an occupying army.

Taiwan is a more complicated issue because it is
not now ruled by Beijing and operates as a free and
independent nation. In fact, Taiwan came under
Chinese administration only in 1683 and has been ruled

directly by the mainland in only four
hundred years.
Nonetheless, the communist
despots, eager to control the $260
billion foreign trade that moves through Taiwan each
year, have declared the contre-temps a “domestic”
issue and continue to amass troops and missiles
across the Straits of Formosa. A favorite tactic is to
conduct “missile tests” over the island to
splashdowns only miles from Taiwan’s shore and,
although a large-scale amphibious invasion is highly
unlikely, the CPC will not back down until it’s bullying
has forced the freely elected Taiwanese government
to negotiate unification.

Chinese watchers much more experienced than I,
especially John Derbyshire of National Review, point
out that, although there is no love for the CPC among
the Chinese populace, it fully supports the
government’s efforts to oppress Tibet and conquer
Taiwan. Contrary opinions noting the practical and/or
historical independence of these regions is met with
purple-faced, foaming rage. The Chinese simply won’t
accept that they have a right to control both Tibet and
Taiwan.

While Jiang Zemin is visiting his Texas ranch this
week, President Bush has the opportunity to state that we
will not permit the Communist Chinese to continue to
oppress Tibet and bully Taiwan. Let’s hope that,
emboldened by the success of his tough talk to Iraq, he

delivers this message to the Chinese.

 ‘Br LIFE

ARlS&LlFEEl)l'l0R
EMAr;ciIYr@wIII.EI1I
MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2002

You are my one and only...in the area code, that is

 Sofar, Fvewrittentwo
articles for the Phi, and the student
response has been entirely positive.
However, I realize that the reactions of
faculty, parents, and alumni who read
thispaper mightditferfnomthoseenrolled
in Greek Central. So for those of you
that may be annoyed, disgusted, or
insulted by my ar1icle (though I’m not
sure why), let me say that I am writing
something college-appropriate. I am
not trying to be a smut—peddler or cause
Robert E. Lee to roll around in his grave
— I simply wish to give my version of
college advice while poking a little ﬁm
at life here. So if you
disapprove of my
article for whatever
reason, I apologize.
Otherwise, enjoy this week’s discourse
on that wonderful manipulative strategy:
the Area-Code Rule.

The summer months are a glorious
time. It’s a time for us to relax with our
families, to make money for the school
year, and to chill withfriends from pre-
college years. Andofcourse,thestn'nmer
is when we can spend quality tirrie with
that “signiﬁcant other” at home. It’s a
slowtimeofyearfilledwithromanceand
devotion and sappy Disney-type
relationships. (insert ‘sigh’ here)

Then September rolls around, and
everything changes. We all roll into Lex
Vegas, the sin-city of the Greek system,
and chaos ensues. While your
“signiﬁcant other” waits by the phone,
you go to fraternity frmctions on four
nights a week, and inevitably, you ﬁnd
someone who catches your fancy. Arid
thenyouﬁndyourselfinthatclassicmoral
dilemma, and what mightbe the equation
for eventual emotional torment: 2

ABSOLUTE FRAILORI)
TIM SMITH ‘04

rnanbers of the opposite sex + rxevious
commitment + long-distance
accountability + alcoholic inﬂuence =
overall bad feelings and painful
emotional scarring. It’s not always that
dramatic, but you can see how bad

“thingscouldcornefromsuchasituatiorr
Luckily, the college powers-that-be
have created a savior which allows us
to avoid him and humiliation and have
unparalleled fun at both home and
school — the Area-Code Rule.

With the Area-Code Rule, you

can free yourself of the baggage of
long-distance commitment, and
have healthy,
e n j o y a b l e
relationships with
the opposite sex
guilt-free.

Butalltoooften,tliistheoryis
abused Guys and giris are both guilty
of taking distance for granted, believing
they can do what they wish with
whomever they wish. They discard
accountability, and believe they can get
away with anything. Then they wonder
whythingsgowiong. ’I‘hesearethe
sleaze-balls thatfriends warn you about,
the ones with no loyalty or respect for
others, andthe ones who take advantage
offolkswhoaiejusttootrusting.

Don’t be like them.

The key to successfully using the
Area-Code rule lies in cormnunication.
It’s a simple concept. Talk to that
‘signiﬁcaiitothei’
More often than not, college kids think
alike—wedon’tliketoputourselvesin
 circmnstances, and we want to
lmve a good time whenever possible.
'I‘he important factor is whether or not
this “good time” is kepthidden.

Consider this successful Area-
CodeRulestory. GuyXandGiiiYhave
dated through high school, and go to
different colleges. Guy X and Girl Y
care for each other, but want the
freedom to explore options in college.
Guy X and Girl Y communicate this, and
agree to stay in a relationship while
letting each other do their own thing at
school. So Guy X and Girl Y have ﬁm
at school , then come home for the
summer with their relationship intact
and unblemished. Their feelings have
survived, and they haven’t had to live
in a box to keep the relationship strong.

(How simple is that? Seriously, it
makes me all warm and fuzzy inside.

Obviously, you take risks when you
enter into these Area-Code agreements,
but it’s all part of the game. Ifyou want
the guiltless option to have relationship
freedom at school, you have to be
prepared for your “signiﬁcant other” to
meet someone who is iriore signiﬁcant

‘thanyou 'Ihat’s1ife.Certainlythatmight

behardtotake,butnotashardasﬁnding
out that you’d been cheated on behind
your back. And truly, no one deserves
that kind of abuse.

So the next time you go out to a
frat party looking for someone to go
home with, remember to consider the
position of that “signiﬁcant other” who
is miles away. Practice the Area-Code
Rule responsibly, and you will be

' rewarded with delightful independence

and with a clear conscience. However,
if you abuse the rule and take
advantage of others, you’ll be rewarded
with that scarlet letter you read about
in English class. Truly, the only thing
better than absolute freedom is
absolute freedom that is guilt-free.

Spring Break 2003 with STS

Americas #1 Student Tour
Operator

best way to make China strong.

I
i
i
l
i
I

It’s your life...

write about it.
X4060

I
I
I
I
I
I

(
I

   Available in Lexington:

# 1 Spring Break Vacations!
Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas,

Mazatlan, Florida, SPadre. 110% Best Prices!

Book Now & get Free Parties & Meals!

Group Discounts. Now hiring Campus Reps!

1-800-234-7007
endlesssummertours.com

 I/KIITY  59?; g  I’

-

 

Men’sarirl ‘Wornen’s Sportswear,    
Outerwear,‘ and Fly Fishing Products

Only at:

Reel Time Fly Fishing & Outfitter. ‘ . 
23WestWasliington St. is  ,  '
' Lexington, VA 244501‘  "
I. I 462-6100' A 
www.reeltimeflyfisliing.com}-

 

The Gay-Straight Alliance at Washington and Lee celebrated National Coming Out Day, October 11, by issuing the following petition:

We acknowledge our support of and promise to help create an open, understanding and accepting community at Washington and Lee University where
individuals are treated with respect and dignity,

Sell Trips earn cash Travel

Free

Irifoimation/Reservations
1-800-648-4849 or
www.ststravel.com

Earn $1 ,OOO-$2,0()O this semester with a proven CampusFundraiser
3 hour fundraising event. Our programs make fundraising easy
with no risks. Fundraising dates are filling quickly, so get with
the program! It works. Contact CarnpusFundraiser at (888) 923-
3238, or visit www.carnpusfundraiser.com

Sincerely,
416 Members of the Washington and Lee Community

Including:

Laurent Boetsch
David Howison
L.C. Atkins
Dawn Watkins
Courtney Penn
H.T. Williams
Sidney Evans
David Partlett
David Millon
Theodore DeLaney
Robert McAhren
Michael Young
Harlan Beckley
Alan McRae
Eric Wilson
Jennifer Ashworth
Meredith Hibbert
Teresa Glassman
Burr Datz
Lesley Wheeler
Gregg Abeu

Brian Malone
Mandy Hege
Troy Pinkey
James Kahn
Julie Woodzicka
Luke Williams
John White
Colin Tate
James Mahon
Sascha Goluboff
Theresa Brauschneider
Roger Crockett
Brian Richardson
Rance Necaise
Simon Levy

Bill Hamilton

' John Watkins

Frank Settle
Michael Pleva
David Harbor
James Donaghy
James Eason
Andrew Webber
Art Goldsmith
Owen Collins
Timothy Lubin
Kelly Stewart Nichols
Paul Gregory
Allison Bell

Holt Merchant
Tom Kane

Carter Hailey
James Warren
Thomas Gallanis
Elizabeth Peck
Joan Shaughnessy
Scott Sundby
Brian Murchison
Mark Grunewald
Elizabeth Branner
Edward Henneman
Ann MacLean Massie
Daryl Brown
Denis Brion

Maureen Cavanaugh
Lewis LaRue

Tim Jost

Sarah Wiant

Ron Krotoszynski
Mark Drumbl

Brad Werdel

Elizabeth Turley
Danielle Kologe
Quince Hopkins

David Super

Herman Hoying ‘O3L
Kelly Jo Larsen ‘O5
Rian Lewis ‘O5

Steve Martinenza ‘O5
Daley Formby ‘O4
Kyle Meehan ‘O5

Kin Murphy ‘05
Jennifer Lux ‘O5
Annie Rochfort ‘O5
Matt Null ‘O6

Grace Barlow ‘O5
Adam Allogramento ‘O4
Laura Wilson ‘O3
Matthew McDermott ‘O4
Nick Gorham ‘O5
Jason Reynolds ‘O3
Patrice Wedderbum ‘O3
Matthew Hampton ‘O6
Mary Hahn ‘O5
Andrae Anderson ‘O6
Julie Fitzer ‘O3
Charlotte Wheeler ‘O4
Natalie Deibel ‘O4
Bethany Dannelly ‘O5
Martha Allgood ‘O5
Eric Koch ‘O5

Kristen Brown ‘O5
Katie Abplanap ‘05
Joe Crescenzo ‘O3
Laurence McKenny ‘O4
Tim Smith ‘O4

Gonz Perez ‘O4
Warren Baker ‘O4
Lydia Toso ‘O4
Samantha Snabes ‘O3
Jessica Lloyd ‘O6

Jane Ledlie ‘O3

Noble Stafford ‘O5
Collins Rainey ‘O4
Julianne Shelley ‘O5
Elizabeth Wilson ‘O5
Joanna Perini ‘O4
Oliver Horn ‘O5
Rachel Turner ‘O6
Gavin Molinelli ‘O5
Brian Avello ‘O5
Becky Johns ‘O3
Andrew DeYoung ‘O5
Meredith King ‘O3
Samuel Russell ‘O5

Liz Clarke ‘O5
Heather Knorr ‘O3
Joanna Persio ‘O5
Christina Innamorato ‘O5

regardless of sexual orientation.

Lauren Painter ‘O5
Phil Walotsky ‘O5
Lindsay Hagerman ‘O5
George Awkward ‘O6
Eric Toney ‘O3

Drew Heath ‘O5

Mike Hoover ‘03
Bryan Early ‘O4
Spencer Kamey ‘05
Chris Colby ‘O5
Kaela Harmon ‘O5
Rodney Foxworth ‘O6
Lessie Calhoun ‘O4
Haile Dagne ‘O3
Susan Thornton ‘04
Ann Bailey Lynn ‘O3
Tyler Van Leeuwen ‘O6
Emily White ‘O6
Michael Denbow ‘O4
Bill Gilsenan ‘O4

Joy Whitehead ‘O4
Carroll Thompson ‘O3
Avery Gholston ‘O3
Kelly Sugarman ‘O3
Justin Novak ‘O3
Jessie Mann ‘O3
Tiffany Jenkins ‘O5
Nancy Rhinehart ‘O3
Chase Rice ‘O3
Charlie Boisky ‘O4
Will Teichman ‘O3
Jenny Thomas ‘O3
Joy Simon ‘O5
Jessica Lake ‘04
Hattie Gruber ‘O4
Blair Sanzone ‘O4
Will Lewis ‘O6
Sharyn Regan ‘O6
John Cofer ‘06

Anne Johansen ‘O5
Becky Grant ‘O6

JR Peterson ‘O6
Michael Khattak ‘O4
Ian Bambrick ‘O3
Paul Negron ‘O3

Ali Meruani ‘O4
Andrew Latimer ‘O5
Nick Ramsey ‘O3
Skye Justice ‘03

John Wright ‘O3

Jeb Brooks ‘O5
Adrienne Damiani ‘O5
Simone King ‘O5
Neal Willetts ‘O3
Tran Kim ‘O5

Nick Cambell ‘O3
Devin Dickson ‘O4
Kimberly Sampson ‘O4

Mary-Wommack Barton ‘O4

Kelly Taffe ‘O4

Mary Carrol Mazza ‘03
Janet Carter ‘O3

Kim Bulka ‘O4

Teresa Eterno ‘O3
Kelley Magill ‘O5

Kim Kreider ‘O3
Becky Kramer ‘O4
Lee Kirven ‘O3

Clare Green ‘O3
Caroline McKinney ‘04
Jennifer Miller ‘O4
Susan Somers ‘O5
Krystina Brown ‘O5

P. Ryan Murphy ‘O3
Erin Hamilton ‘O5
Carol Wang ‘O3
Richard Williams ‘04
Michael McNamara ‘04
Elizabeth Creasey ‘O4
Cristin Nunez ‘O5
Emilee Johnson ‘O6
Nazo Burgy ‘O6
Douglas Allen ‘06
Caitlin Lane ‘O6
Stacey Kimmel ‘O3
Vishal Sapra ‘O6

Sarah Jafri ‘O5

Ben Everett ‘O6
Jenny Lu ‘O5

Ligia Abreu ‘O6
Rosine Kouamen ‘O5
Alli Foley ‘O6

Drew Davenport ‘06
Ian Dickinson ‘O6
Justin Allegro ‘O3
Tallie Jamison ‘O5
Erin Falzareno ‘O6
Amy Bacastow ‘O6
Zachary Fake ‘O3
Jeremy Mims ‘O4
Brian Maher ‘04

Jeff Dannes ‘03

Eric Ritter ‘O4

Josh Patton ‘O3

Greg Papeika ‘O4

Lee Williams ‘O5
Jared Harrison ‘O5
Matt Clauss ‘05
Daniel Pabst ‘05

Kyle Olcott ‘O5

Noe Garth ‘O5

Ashley Hans ‘O6
Jessica Johnson ‘O6
Kathryn Temple ‘O5
Catherine Alexander ‘O6
Christina Kolock ‘O5
Meredith Donegan ‘05
Murray Abemethy ‘O3
Brodie Gregory ‘O3
Betsy Ely ‘O3
Michelle Widmann ‘O4
Thomas Worthy ‘O5
Esta Acree’O5
Lyndsay Polloway ‘O6
Earl Benson ‘O3

Matt Lafkas ‘O4
Elizabeth Raulston ‘06
Katherine Kilpatrick ‘06
Anne Callison ‘O5
Allison Gruenwald ‘O3

Jenn Backe ‘O4

Sara Jurkowsky ‘O4
Mavia Brown ‘O4
Katie Kolle ‘O3
Lylan Crites ‘O5
Mary Hahn ‘O5
Vanessa Adams ‘04
Ted Archer ‘O6
Pierce Mayson ‘O5
Louisa Feve ‘O6
Briana Derr ‘O6
Mina Azodi ‘O6
Denisio Truitt ‘O5
Olamida Kolewole ‘O5
Akwugo Onuekwusi ‘O5
Ryan Clements ‘O4
Jennifer Nelson ‘O3
Allison Perry ‘05
Erin Johnson ‘O4
Rebecca Parker ‘O5
Maren Garval ‘O4
Catherine Guy ‘O4
Michelle Moore ‘O3
Lauren Partridge ‘05
Katie Johnston ‘05
Alison Irvin ‘O5
Jessica Taylor ‘04
Katie Jenkins ‘O6
Rebecca Merritt ‘O5
Trey Fogg ‘O3
Zahara Parker ‘O5
Matthew Debnam ‘O6
Megan Hill ‘O5
McLean Gordon ‘O5
Kim Hurd ‘O5

Becky Skaggs ‘O5
Clint Oakley ‘O6
Jeffrey Meriggi ‘O3 ‘
Ruth Esponda ‘O5
Andy Harding ‘O3
Geoffrey Rogow ‘O4
Mark Fechtel ‘O5
Gabe Chapman ‘O6
Brian Frydenborg ‘04
Elizabeth King ‘O5
Brooks Batcheller ‘O4
Allen Barry ‘O5
Dustin Jacobson ‘O5
Bruce Howard ‘O5
Wayne Richey ‘02
Matthew Durham ‘O5
Michael Jaschob ‘O3
Bernie Campbell ‘O5
Eric Brassil ‘O4
William Martin ‘03
Timothy Moll ‘04
Robert Floyd ‘O4
Jonathan Wortham ‘04
Sarah Kavanaugh ‘O4
Susannah Hewlett ‘O4
Noah Weber ‘O3
David Hicks ‘03
Brooks Morgan ‘04
Hilary Martin ‘O4L
Austin Jowers ‘O3L

Michael Dimitrik ‘O3L
Les Block ‘O4L

Lisa Fry ‘O3L
Margaret Chipowsky ‘O4L
Tim Ballo ‘O4L
Meghan Smith ‘O5L
Blaine Elliott ‘O4L
Bart Torsyth ‘O4L
Camie Bowden ‘O3L
Jason Timoll ‘O4L
Shellie Sewell ‘O4L
Suzanne Jakata ‘O3L
Mark Kennedy ‘O4L
Shelley Kebay ‘O3L
Dan Payne ‘O4L

Seth Steed ‘OSL
Aimee Jackson ‘O3L
Jill Lowell ‘OSL

Steve Tseng ‘O3L
Michael Kvistad ‘O4L
Jacob Penrod ‘O3L
Henry Leventos ‘O3L
Cynthia Bruce ‘O3L
Kim Bryant ‘O4L
Patricia Jones ‘OSL
April Ballou ‘O5L
Quinn Kurtz ‘OSL
Rebecca Miles ‘OSL
Melissa McClellan ‘OSL
Meghan Morgan ‘ L
Shauna Wickham ‘ 5L
Kate Ballengee ‘OSL
Huey-Lin Nie ‘OSL
Nancy Kuron ‘O3L
Brian Hudak ‘O3L
Julie Palmer ‘O3L

Joel Bogorad ‘O3L
Shayla McGee ‘05L
Michael Adamson ‘O4L
Lee Goches ‘O3L
Jennifer Nelson ‘O4L
Sarah Hays ‘O4L
Damaris Foster ‘O4L
Meredith Galto ‘O3L
Deborah Tang ‘O3L
Lesley Beam ‘O3L

The GSA’s petition for a
more inclusive campus
community at W&L reflects
a diverse group of 80 faculty
and administers, 334 students,
216 men, 200 women, 55
law students, 67 seniors, 72
juniors. 106 S0Ph0m0res, and
51 freshrmn. The GSA would
like to thank everyone who
signed and invites those who
did not to consider supptxting
the GSA in the future
Together, students and faculty

can make W&L an even
better place through the
support of all members of our

community.

 

 

Juaunul L l\. l.\l\lA-ll‘:

SPORTS EDHOR
EMAH; rRtNur\t_i@yu'.i:l)U

"iris Rl1\~i('.3~’Ttliti Flier

MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2002

BY DAVID CROWELL
.\SSlS'l‘_\NT SPORTS EDITOR’

The Washington and Lee men’s
soccer team sent a huge Parents
Weekend crowd into a frenzy on Sat-
urday afternoon, upsetting Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference foe Vir-
ginia Wesleyan, the top team in the
NCAA South Region, 4-1 at the rain-
soaked Liberty Hall Fields.

With the win, the Generals won
their ﬁfth ODAC match in a row and
evened their season mark at 7-7-2 (5-3
ODAC). The Marlins, who entered as
the No. 2 team in Division III, dropped
their first game of the season and fell
to 15-1-1 (6-1-1 ODAC).

Despite being huge underdogs,
senior forward Brad Murphy said the
Generals were confident going into
the game.

“They’re the No. 2 team in the
nation, but the upperclassmen had
beaten them three straight times,”
Murphy said. “We had a lot of conﬁ-
dence going into the game, and the
older guys knew we could get it done
if we played a tough game.”

UPSET WIN. Sophomore sweeper Peter Miller sends the ball

SPORTS
Generals slam No.

JEB BROOKS/ The Rir1g—l1m1 Phi

on Saturday at the Liberty Hall Fields as W&L’s Paul Negron

ahead in \Washington and Lee’s 4-1 win over Virginia Wesleyan and Marlins Kelvin Murray (9) and Mark Tribendis give chase.

The Marlins started the scoring
at 32:01 when Josh Nolz scored off an
assist from Evan Siddall, but the Gen-
erals quickly struck back at a defense

that had only allowed three ﬁrst—half
goals this season.

Freshman midﬁelder Derrick Lott
raced down the right side of the ﬁeld,

 

BY DONNY BANKS
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee volleyball team defeated
Bridgewater to move to 9-0 in the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference and then split four matches at the Maryville
Invitational this week.

The Generals started the week by beating the Eagles
30-14, 3027, 29-31 , 30-27 on Tuesday at the Warner Center.

W&L started strong, dominating the entire first
game. However, Bridgewater clearly made some neces-
saiy adjustments to slow down the Generals’ quick style
of play as they edged closer in the second game and
managed to edge out the third.

But led down the stretch by the solid play of fresh-
man middle blocker Susan Gaillard, W&L put the Eagles
away by winning the fourth game to end the match.

“Bridgewater really adjusted well with shorter serves
and a change in blocking assignments,” head coach
Bryan Snyder said. “But we were able to come through
at some key points which eventually helped us win.”

Gaillard ﬁnished the match with 16 kills and ﬁve
blocks. Sophomore outside hitter Michelle Chastain also

W tps Egls, splits 4 at Mryvill

glee BROOKS / The Ring-trim Phi
HOME COURTADVANTAGE. Sophomore libero Jennifer Lux dives to dig the ball in W&L’s 30-14, 30-27, 29-31, 30-27 win
over Bridgewater at the Warner Center on Tuesday as sophomore Michelle Chastain and senior Stacey Kimmel (12) react.

helped the Generals with 18 kills and 21 digs. Freshman
middle blocker Taylor Gibson recorded seven kills and
seven blocks, while freshman setter Christine Gladysz
tallied 47 assists and 14 digs.

The match marked a quality ODAC victory for W&L
over a third—place Bridgewater team.

“This is a vital victory for our team,” Snyder said. “It
was our first win over a high-caliber opponent since our loss
to Christopher Newport (on Oct. 10). To win a match like this
offers a big boost in conﬁdence going into the home stretch,
especially with the Roanoke match approaching.”

The Generals then traveled to Tennessee for the
Maryville Invitational, defeating Sewanee 30-15, 30-21,
30-17 and Huntingdon 30-22, 30-13, 29-31, 30-21 on the ﬁrst
day of the tournament. Sophomore outside hitter Emily
Wolﬁng had 14 kills and 18 digs against Huntingdon.

W&L lost a pair of four-game matches on Saturday.
Thomas More defeated W&L 29-31, 30-28, 30-27, 30-25,
while Maryville won its match against the Generals 30-
20, 30-27, 29-31, 31-29.

The Generals host Mary Baldwin at 6:30 pm’. on
Tuesday. W&L faces Roanoke, also undefeated in the
ODAC, at home on Saturday.

liNSPiRfiJ BY    SUVE AND DAR 

  

Seats five. has 53 cubic
feet of cargo space. and

turned the comer on his defender and
delivered a beautiful crossing pass
that sophomore midﬁelder Brian Pirkle
hammered home to tie the score with

2 Virginia Wesleyan, 4-1

But to Lott and Murphy, the key to A V,‘
the second half was taking a 1-1 tie  .3

less than eight minutes to play in the
first half.

“That was a big momentum—turner
for us,” Lott said. “We tied the game
back up and from there we took it to
them. They really weren’t ready for it.”

The Marlins certainly weren’t ready
for the Generals’ offense in the second
half, as the muddy conditions affected
their transition play and passing.

While Wesleyan got stuck, W&L
played better in transition and
Murphy seemed to gain extra speed
in the mud, as he raced down the ﬁeld,
took a pass from junior midﬁelder
Jacob Stoehr, sidestepped a defender,
and scored at 52:22. Following the
play, Murphy sank to both knees and
raised his arms to the crowd before
being mobbed by teammates.

“It was pretty crazy,” Murphy
said. “This was our last game in front
of the parents and it was a big deal to
us. We wanted to come out and put
on a show for the crowd.”

The goal by Murphy turned into
a W&L avalanche as freshman
midﬁelder Keith Sullivan and Murphy
both scored late in the second half.

PAGE 5

n
a

into halftime.

“They get up early on their op-  5
ponents, so I guess once we tied the'_ A‘
game so fast, they lost a little bit of
their conﬁdence,” Murphy said. “We 4
took it to them once we realized they  

didn’t have their conﬁdence.”

Senior Tim Foley made four saves ' i '

in goal, including a few big stops in, 

the first half, when the Marlins',"“

outshot W&L 13-5.

The Generals’ win came on the _
heels of a 2-1 victory over Eastemififivi
Mennonite on Wednesday afternoon.

Sophomore Justin Mygatt ’ I
opened the scoring 10:32 into the?“
match off an assist from Murphy, and if
the senior co—captain added W&L’s . A

final goal at the 33:48 mark.

Eastern Mennonite avoided the 
shutout when the ball bounced off a, 
W&L defender and into the Generals’ ‘
goal with 3:32 left to play. Foley made: 1.

ﬁve saves in goal to earn the win.

W&L plays its ﬁnal regular-sea-i 3'

son game when the Generals host

Bridgewater at 4 p.m. on Wednesday. , ’

Soccer pulls off 2 home wins A

Women end regular season with non-conference victories over SCAD, Goucher

BY DAVID CROWELL
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

Sophomore forward Maggie
Hope and junior midfielder Heather
Coleman each tallied two goals as the
Washington and Lee women’s soc-
cer overwhelmed Goucher on Sunday
afternoon, winning 4-0.

The win followed a 2-1 double-
overtime victory over Savarmah A&D
on Saturday and pushed W&L’s un-
beaten streak to 16 games.

In the victory over the Gophers,
W&L (13-1-3) remained ﬁrmly in con-
trol on offense throughout the entire
contest, but had some trouble ﬁnd-
ing the back of the net.

Hope scored the first goal of the
game off an assist from sophomore
defender Kelley Zagol following a
well-executed comer kick, but the Gen-
erals couldn’t follow up in the first
half, taking a 1-0 lead into halftime.

“We outshot them and we knew
we would eventually finish some

chances,” sophomore defender and '

captain Meghan Hayde said. “We just
didn’t come out as strong after we
played a tough game yesterday.”

Hayde was responsible for
Hope’s second goal at the 61 :55 mark
after she took the ball from midﬁeld,
dribbled through an empty space in
front of the defense and fed Hope with
a perfect pass.

“I knew Maggie would be open
and they gave me lots of space. We
try to get our defenders involved be-
cause that’s how we can score a lot of
our goals,” Hayde said. “It’s nice that
we can contribute to the offense.”

Coleman finished the scoring
with two goals off nice crossing
passes from freshman midﬁelder Gina

 

is available with 188 hp

and a B-speed manual
shift. Even evolution
earft fully explain it.

OVERTIME THRILLER. junior Meghan Hayde plays the ball upﬁeld in W&L’s 2-1 win
over Savannah A&D on Saturday as sophomore Kelley Zagol looks on.

Von Stemberg and senior midﬁelder
Jenny Thomas.

In Saturday’s win over SCAD, the
Generals failed to capitalize on some
good scoring chances as muddy con-
ditions interrupted the offensive ﬂow
and left a number of centering passes
without a recipient.

Von Stemberg gave W&L a 1-0
lead, however, with 15:32 to play in
the first half as she took a pass from
classmate Kerry Giblin and drilled it
past the Bees’ Emily Bohart.

Coach Neil Cunningham noted the
exceptional play of his three freshmen,
including defender Heather Rogers.

“I’ve been pleased all year with
the freshman. They’ve gotten stron-
ger as the year’s gone on, but now it
gets hard,” the second—year head
coach said. “The season is a little
longer than they’re used to and a little
more intense.”

Unfortunately for the Parents
Weekend crowd, SCAD forced 20 min-
utes of extra time as Lindy Krakowiak
followed a mistake in W&L’s defense
to score with 3: 19 to play.

“It was a great goal. She hit an
amazing shot, a real beauty,”
Cunningham said.

Thomas made sure the Generals
didn’t settle for a fourth tie as she scored
off an assist from Hope with 45 sec-
onds left in the second overtime period.

The Generals ﬁnished their regu-
lar season with Sunday’s victory and
await their seed in the Old Dominion _

Athletic Conference Tournament,’ 3

which begins on Saturday.

“We’ve gone 16 games without at 
loss and there won’tbe any team out there ; 5
that wants to lose to us,” Hayde said_._. i
“We need to go into the postseason real-9 
izingtliatandtrytobetlieteamtobeatf;

We’re deﬁnitely where we want to be.”

Visit http://ath|etics.w|u.edu for W&L scores and stats. _

Japanese Film Society
presents
"Spirited Away’ by
Hayao Miyazaki
in Japanese with
English subtitles.
Science Center Room
A214
Saturday, November 2
at 7 pm
Reception (with sushi)
to follow in the Great
Hall of the Science
Center.

Celebrating Student
Success
Nominate someone by filling
out a nomination form found
online at:
htto://campuslife.wlu.edu/
stuaffairsi
studentsuccesshtm
or contact Burr Datz at
x4045 for more information.

Celebrating Student Success
Initiative, sponsored by the

  

1:67.25 
   Nu muons
Monday, umber are

Ttmrs Begin at
8:320 Every’ Night;

    
   
  

x A x . .- «'4; c by 2» 93:‘

05?. III! 

r.»rv';/‘i'-<«'I_:'

7:ll0&8:30'.Ibursun. 
Frtrl.ay,Sattirday& .7

   
 

@5933 WWW WTCR  U5 ll.» I59. 5&1»?! Dean of Students Office, ....» Thursday A. 1:

E0 «ii F59 W955  it'3iE  ‘$51’?  recognizes those students Hnuowgen N}. In 

   Fﬁ, Eiﬁllﬁﬁiliiﬁé who contribute to University ' ' E" ‘ If

A H j , l‘§i%.E    §lI3’5l":l‘ili'£'%i§lW life in ways not often seen to ﬁgsgrvgtioa Required 3',
Star-ﬂag at $15’ y5.5f Made; Shawn  V ﬁ=g_5_-  ttﬁlllll %‘.t.Eit F'li%lllrll’ Itﬁlit. the larger community. ca“ 3§8_1.uﬁ-,3 

 

 

    

PAGE 6

MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2002

Offense clicks in

MoGan/ey tosses for 300
yards as W&L football
defeats Sewanee, 26-14

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee jumped out
to a 20-0 halftime lead and held off a
third-quarter rally by Sewanee to pull
out a 26-14 win at Wilson Field on
Saturday.

Junior Sean McGarvey com-
pleted 25-of-46 passes for 301 yards
and all three ﬁrst—ha]f touchdowns,
becoming the first General to throw
for 300 yards in a game since Chris-
tian Batcheller did so against
Bridgewater in 1999.

Senior Chris Sullivan rushed 29
times for 126 yards and a 45-yard TD
that put the game away in the fourth
quarter, and senior tight end Jay Tho-
mas caught seven of McGarvey’s
passes for 51 yards and a score be-
fore leaving the game with an injury.

“It was huge, especially because
it was a total team effort,” McGarvey
said. “We had everything clicking to-
day. We had our special teams with
the big fake punt, we had our defense
shut them out in the first half, and we
just rebounded in the second half to
really close the deal.”

The win also came after back—to-
back losses in the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference to Catholic and
Hampden—Sydney. Although Sewanee
(4-4) is non—conference, the Generals
(3-4) needed a victory before heading
into N o. 2 Bridgewater next week.

W&L coach Frank Miriello cred-
ited offensive coordinator Chris
Ostrowsky with improving the game
plan after the Generals had scored just
53 points in their previous four games.



EFFECTIVE 0FFENsE.]uriior quarterback Sean McGarvey ﬁres
a pass in Washington and Lee’s 26-14 win over Sewanee at

“We spread the field out and
threw the ball quite a bit, and that loos-
ened up the defense so they couldn’t
jam it in there with the run game,”
Miriello said. “They had to play man
coverage on the outside, and we’ve
got some talented kids on the outside.

“Once we started completing
some passes, they had to change their
defensive scheme. We started gash-
ing them with the running game then.”

The Generals racked up 517 yards
of total offense, much of which came
in the first half. W&L converted on
the opening drive of the game on a
touchdown pass from McGarvey to
junior Jon Brimer on a drive kept alive
by junior safety Lee Walker’s 22-yard
rush on a fake punt play.

The Generals extended their lead
to 20-0 on touchdown receptions by

Thomas and senior Dyllan Rankin.

But the Tigers came back in the
second half, as quarterback Kirk
Holtgrewe and running back Justin
Askew ran the ball right at the Gener-
als. Holtgrewe scored on runs of two
and 10 yards to cut the lead to 20-14
with 8:27 left in the third.

“They seemed to be getting out-
side leverage on our defense in that
couple of series. We were back on our
heels,” Miriello said. “We took our
strong safety and brought him down
on the edge, so we added another de-
fender up along the line of scrimmage.
That seemed to solve the problem.”

Sewanee drove down to the Gen-
erals’ 20-yard line on their next pos-
session before turning the ball over
on downs. They wouldn’t make it
back into W&L territory.

gridiron win

BARRETT l)A\\Is/ T/re Rz'rrg-rum Pin‘

\X/ilson Field on Saturday. McGarvey completed 25—of—46
passes for 301 yards and three touchdowns against the Tigers.

Sullivan sealed the win with a
45-yard touchdown run with 9:30 to
play, and a 19-yard pass from
McGarvey to sophomore tight end

, Patrick Neuman on the final drive of

the game made the junior quarterback
the school’s ﬁrst 300—yard passer in
three years.

W&L now faces its toughest
opponent of the season in defending
NCAA Division III runner-up
Bridgewater. The Generals and the
Eagles kick off at 1 p.m. on Saturday.

“We’ve got to stay focused, im-
prove on what we did today,” Sullivan
said. “We ﬁnally showed today that
we can play like a real team. It’s going
to be tough, but any team can beat
any other team on any given day.
We’re just going to go out there and
see what happens.”

Field hockey splits pair of home matches

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

Washington and Lee ﬁeld hockey
split their weekend games at home,
with a Saturday afternoon win over
St. Mary’s and a Sunday afternoon
loss to Catholic University.

W&L sophomore midﬁelder Kitt
Murphy scored first Saturday after-
noon, assisted by junior sweeper
Maitena Moure, with 23 :40 remaining
in the first half. Murphy then assisted
freshman midﬁelder S.B. Northen with
9:00 remaining to give the Generals a
2-0 lead at halftime.

St. Mary’s struck back less than
four minutes into the second half, as
junior midfielder Kate Story scored
unassisted. The rest of the half saw no
scoring, until Moure tallied on a pen-
alty comer assessed after time expired,
with the assist credited to Murphy.

W&L freshman goalies Courtney
Harrison and Elise Gelinas combined
for ﬁve saves and one goal allowed.

Sunday afternoon brought the
Cardinals of Catholic University to the
Turf Field. The Generals opened

 

JED BRooILs/ The Ring-rm P/ii

SLAP SHOT. Freshman S.B. Northern and the Generals fell to Catholic, 3-2.

strong, but were unable to hold on to
the lead as Catholic fought back, de-
feating W&L 3-2.

The Generals opened the day
with a penalty stroke from sophomore
defender Erin Rathbone with 28:17
remaining in the half. Play then moved
up and down the ﬁeld for more than
20 minutes with no scoring.

Junior forward Jessica Lake took
a breakaway all the way to the Catho-
lic goal, but was stopped by goalie
Katie Iarmacone. Catholic sophomore
forward Rebecca Clark followed with

a breakaway of her own, but Gelinas
was able to stop her from the goal.

W&L sophomore Kristen Brown
gave her team a 2-0 lead on a goal as-
sisted by freshman defender Katharine
Lester with 4:34 left in the half.

The second half, however, brought
harder and tougher play from the Cardi-
nals. Catholic freshman forward Christy
Engstrom scored on a penalty stroke
with 30:57 remaining in the half. Clark
then scored twice more, once assisted
by freshman midﬁelder Jamie Punyko,
at 24: 19 and 15:24 to seal the game.

Gelinas spent 50 minutes in the
goal to earn eight saves, and Harrison
rounded out the remaining 20 minutes
to earn two saves. lannacone spent
the entire game in the goal, garnering
10 saves.

W&L coach Wendy Orrison was
disappointed but optimistic for the
challenge of their ﬁrst Old Dominion
Athletic Conference Tournament.

“Catholic is a tough team. They
were ranked top 20 last year, and they
took (Johns) Hopkins to overtime,”
she said. “The loss is tough, but
these are the types of teams that we’ll
be playing in the ODAC Tournament,
so the experience was valuable.”

Orrison noted fatigue in her play-
ers. “We were tired and ﬂatfooted
during the second half, and they took
advantage of that.” Orrison also
pointed out that Rathbone’s penalty
stroke was her fourth of the season,
and she has scored on all of them.

The Generals will return to play
on Saturday when they host Virginia
Wesleyan in the quarterﬁnals of the
ODAC Tournament, with a time to be
determined.

Women’s te

nnis opens’

with strong fall season '

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS wRITER

Washington and Lee women’s
tennis is off to an excellent start.
The Generals have concluded their
fall season in fine form, and will con-
tinue to train in anticipation of the
spring schedule.

Coached by Cinda Rankin, the
team finished up their last two tour-
naments very
strongly. The
W&L Fall Fes-
tival was swept
by the home
team — a Gen-
eral found her-
self at the top of
each ﬂight.
Coach Rankin
was very pleased with their play.

“Liberty University is Division
I, and they played very well,” she
said. “I’m very happy that our girls
did so well against them.”

The No. 1 doubles team of se-
nior Erika Proko and sophomore
Lindsay Hagerman then traveled to
the ITA National Championships in
Corpus Christi, Texas. The two were
defeated by a team from the Univer-
sity of California at Santa Cruz, and
then beat teams from Denison and
the College of New Jersey to secure
their ﬁfth-place ﬁnish.

The mainly individual fall sea-
son then concluded. Spring season
will see the team return to play as
they begin dual matches.

 

RANKIN

Rankin is very happy with her,
team as they enter their winter break.
“I have seven freshmen who have a
very good work ethic. They’re all
very positive, coachable players, and
they’ll be challenging up the ladder ‘
soon. The upperclassmen have
been very good about helping the
freshmen adjust to the team here.”

Freshman Lisa Mabry leads the _”
Class of 2006 on the team. Mabry
won the B draw at the Southeast
Regional Rolex Tournament at Mary

, Washington, and had to defeat her

teammate, freshman Patty Roberts, pi,
in order to do it.

“The girls are very competitive,
but they are always in good spirits
about their play,” said Rankin, who
pointed out that both Mabry and ‘
Roberts played very hard during that
match, neither giving an inch.

Proko and classmate Laura
Bruno are the team’s captains. Rankin ,
appreciates the effort that the two
have put forth. “Laura has been re-
covering from knee injuries, but is
looking forward to a good season in
the spring, and Proko is coming off V
the Nationals toumament,” she said.
“Both are excellent players.”

The 22 members of the women’s
tennis team are in good shape as ,
they look to the spring season. It is
a large team, but with that many play-
ers, Rankin is able to schedule two
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
matches on the same day — the only I
constraint is the number of courts
available to her.

Men’sswimming ’
coach resigns post‘

I’RO.\l STAFF REPORTS

Washington and Lee men’s
swimming coach Andrew Pulsifer,
who has held his post since 1997,
has resigned for health reasons.

Women’s head coach Kiki
Jacobs will assume head coaching
duties for the remainder of the 2002-
03 season. The search for an assis-
tant swim coach will begin immedi-
ately, while a permanent head coach
should be named after the season.

During his ﬁve-plus years with
the school, Pulsifer continued the 28-
year streak of sending at least one
swimmer to the NCAA National Chain-
pionships, and three Generals earned
Division HI All-America honors.

“It is with great sadness that I
leave this outstanding swimming
team,” Pulsifer told W&L Sports In-
formation. “l have the highest re-
gard for this exceptional group of
young men and trust that they will
continue to strive for personal ex-
cellence.

“I wish to thank Washington
and Lee University for the opportu-

nity to work with such outstanding
young men.”

Women’s swimming
opens year with ODAC win

LYNCHBURG — The W&L}.
women’s swimming team began the
2002-03 season with a 79-42 Old
Dominion Athletic Conference win
at Randolph—Macon Women’s Col-
lege on Thursday. . ’

Senior Kelli Austin won the 200
and 500 Free with times of 2:06.27
and 5:53.88, and classmate Blair
Huffman placed first in the 200 Fly,
(2:l8.39) and 1,000 Free (1 1:37.80) to
lead W&L.

Freshman Beth Sauer also won
two events for the Generals, ﬁnish-
ing ahead of the pack in the 100 and’
200 Breast with times of 1: 18.22 and
2:45.49.

Junior Mandi Kimble recorded
a ﬁrst—p1ace finish in the 200 back-‘
stroke at a time of 2:22.68.

W&L continues its ODAC
schedule with a 7 p.m. meet at Sweet
Briar on Wednesday.

i

 

‘I
SCOREBOARD
V
SATuRDAv’s FOOTBALLYARDLINE W&L SPORTS SCHEDULES OCT. 28-Nov. 3
Washington and Lee 26, Sewanee 14 Tuesday, Oct. 29 Volleyball
Randolph-Macon 0 0 14 0-14 Volleyball‘ Roanoke at w&|_, 12 pm_
Washington and Lee _6 14 0 6-20 Mary Baldwin at W&L, 6:30 p.m. Maryvme at W&L: 4 pm it
First Quarter Football

W&L -— Brimer 20 pass trom McGarvey (Kellogg kick tailed), 10:12
Second Quarter
W&L — Thomas 6 pass from McGanrey (conversion failed), 11:48
W&L -— Rankin 21 pass from McGarvey (Neuman pass from
McGarvey), 2:30

Wednesday, Oct. 30
Men’s Soccer

Bridgewater at W&L, 4 p.m.
Women’s Swimming
W&L at Sweet Briar, 7 p.m.

W&L at Bridgewater, 1 p.m.

Men’s and Women’s Swimming
W&L at Transylvania, 1 p.m.
Field Hockey “

Third Quarter W&L in ODAC Tournament, TBD
UOS — Holtgrewe 2 run (Tuck kick), 12:33 Friday, Nov. 1 Men’s Soccer
UOS — Holtgrewe 10 run (Tuck kick), 8:27 Riding W&L in ODAC tournament, TBD

Fourth Quarter W&L in ODAC Championships womenis soccer
W&L — Sullivan 45 run (conversion tailed), 9:30 (at RMWC)

W&L in ODAC Tournament, TBD 5-

UOS W&L Saturday, Nov. 2
First downs 16 26 Cross Country s‘_‘"_“aV* N°"' 3
Rushes-yards 39-153 44-212 W&L in ODAC Championships Rldlllg
Passing yards 132 305 (at Roanoke) W&L at H0l|inS lnvilalional
Return yards 4-27 3-36 i
Comp-Att-Int 17-27-1 26-47-0
Sacked-Yards lost 0-0 0-0  FOOTBALL GLANCE
Punts 7-35.3 2-47 V
Fumbles-lost 0-0 0-0 ODAC °Ve'a"
Penalties-yards 4-35 7-61 Team W L W L PF PA
Time of Possession 22:32 37:28 Bridgewater 3 0 7 0 280 64 i‘
Hampden-Sydney 4 1 6 1 231 123
RUSHlNG s«iw:liiIeiDUri LksTA2T(is1T IigsHoltgrewe 12 25 Ra"d°'ph'Ma°°n 2 1 5 2 116 99
—- e: s ew - , - , .
Williams 2-2, Eson 1-0, Cole 1-(-10). Washington and Lee: Sullivan igatsnngton and Lee $ 2 2 2 :24 170
29-126, Caramore 9-31, McGarvey 2-so, Walker 1-22, Diverio 3‘ °‘° 7 195 I
2.5, Team 1_(_2)_ Emory & Henry 0 3 2 5 104 192
PASS|NG—Sewanee: Holtgrewe 17-27-1-132. Washington and Guillofd 0 3 3 4 123 208
Lee: McGarvey 25-46-0-301, Whitfield 1-1-0-4. Oct. 26 Results NW 2 scheduje

RECElVlNG—Sewanee: Rodgers 7-67, Williams 4-48,
Askew 4-11, Eson 2-6. Washington and Lee: Thomas 7-51,
Callaham 6-99, Sullivan 5-39, Rankin 4-62, Neuman 2-24,
Brimer 1-20, Caramore 1-10.

|NTERCEPT|ONS—-Washington and Lee: Walker 1-2.

W&L 26, Sewanee 14

Bridgewater 48, Emory & Henry 18
Hampden-Sydney 30, Catholic 20
Randolph-Macon 17, Johns Hopkins 12

W&L at Bridgewater
Catholic at Emory & Henry
Guiltord at Randolph-Macon
Davidson at Hampden-Sydney

 

