— .c 37% .755

  

 

/-lurch

R553-
Q/-105
\°~‘2\
C'2—-—

Student

  

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

«   NG-TUM

Tile rinelenl wire of Wnrllingien and lee Unieerrin rinee 7897 (D Online in‘: pez'.wln.eeln

prepare for Dress...Fancy Dress

PEI  

Weeks of planning, preparing will pay 0 during ‘Dressed to Kill: Always Shakln’ Never Stirred,’ this year’s $80,000 Bond-themed Ball

Ry BY CALEY ANDERSON ,
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

This Friday, March 7, will mark
the date of the 96th Washington
(Y and Lee Fancy Dress Ball. This
year’s theme, “Dressed To Kill: Al-
ways Shakin’ Never Stirred,” fol-
lows a theme modeled after the
James Bond movies. Dress, as al-
I ways at the FD ball, will be black
tie. Featured alongside this year’s
FD will be George Clinton, the
noted modern musician who is
4 probably best known for his work
on the Austin Powers
soundtracks. His band, the P—Funk
Allstars, will accompany him.

The Fancy Dress Ball, which
will take place from 9p.m. to 1a.m. in
the Warner Center, is the largest
and most organized formal event on
campus. The Fancy Dress Comrnit—
tee, which usually has its first meet-
ing in Fall Term, continues to work
on plans and preparations for the
Ball right up until the day it takes
place. This year’s ball is no differ-
ent and is the result of ‘months of

brainstorming and work on the part '

of the FD committee. Parts of the
effort that go into each FD include
preparing the Warner Center, se-
lecting a theme, advertising the Ball
(this year the effort included the
classy Bond posters and the super-

sized silhouettes in Bond poses
that could be found in, among other
places, the C—School and the Co-
op), and mailing the Ball’s invita-

tions, which this year took the form
of tuxedo-shaped cards.

Tickets and FD 2003 memorabilia
can be purchased in room 109 of the

t 
MONDAY, MARCH 3, 2003

March 7, 2003

University Center any day from to-
day until Friday from lOa.m. to 3p.m.
Payments accepted are cash, check,
and swipe—it-home. The cost of a

 

JEB BROOKS / The K1'rr‘g—l/ml PM
ticket includes the price of the actual
Ball as well as the cost of attending

the concert featuring George Clinton
and the P—Funk Allstars.

V
LIPSYNCH FOOD
I?
N’
Y
K
‘T
N‘
‘Y
W
X
4' ]EE BROOKS / T/ie Ring-I/ml P/ii
LOTS OF HOTDOGS. Students Against Rockbridge Area Hunger (SARAH) is distributing fee for spectators and a $100 entrance charge levied on participating Greek organizations at
more than $9,000 worth of food to the community. The funds were raised at recent ]anuary’s Lip Synch festivities. Funds from students who chose to skip recent meals at the
campus—wide activities. Organizers purchased 11,084 pounds of food, including 300 Evans Dining Hall added to the donation, as well. The skip—a—meal program had 280
pounds of hotdogs. The food is destined for organizations in Rockbridge County, participants. The remaining fundswillhelp buy turkeys next Thanksgiving. Recipients of
T Lexington, Buena Vista and Glasgow. The groups will beneﬁt from a ten dollar admission the food battled \X/ednesday’s snow—storm.

. W&L supports affirmative action, not quotas

‘I

'5'

.University examines fr

Y

Fl

BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTT
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

Washington and Lee entered the national debate over
affirmative action by joining an amicus curiae brief which
supports the use of race in university admissions.

An amicus brief advises a case’s judges and is is-
sued by a party uninvolved in the litigation, here the two
suits challenging the University of Michigan’s afﬁrmative
action policy.

W&L is one of over 30 universities that filed a brief
supporting late Supreme Court Justice Lewis Powell’s
opinion in University of Califomia v. Bakke (1978), which

“We were invited to sign (other briefs),” said W&L
President Tom Burish. “This one appeared to us to be the
one most in line with our views on the topic.”

According to the University of Michigan’s web
page, over 80 organizations have signed various amicus
briefs on its behalf, including Microsoft, the American
Bar Association and the National Organization for
Women. A

University Counsel Leanne Shank took the lead role
on this issue for W&L, Burish said, and the Board of
Trustees discussed the issue at length at its last meeting.

“In the end the Executive Committee of the Board
voted to sign the particular brief that we signed,” Burish

“W&L supports Justice PoV'vell’s guidance in Cali-

i fomia v. Bakke and the precedent that diversity is a com-

pelling interest to allow private [universities] to take race,
as one of many factors, into consideration in admissions
decisions,” explained Tom White, director of communica-
tions. ,

Powell, a W&L alumnus, graduated from the College
in 1929 and the Law School in 1931.

The case under consideration could affect W&L’s
admissions policy.

“Even though W&L is private (unlike the University
of Michigan), it receives federal funding,” said Associate

permits affirmative action but not quotas.

BY MEGAN MORGAN
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

On Thursday, February 20, a fire broke
out at The Station, a popular Rhode Island
nightclub, a result of pyrotechnics used by
the band Great White in their show. The fire
spread quickly due to the fact that the build-
ing was one story with a low ceiling, was
wooden and had flammable soundprooﬁng
foam insulation on its walls. As a result, 98
people were killed and 187 were injured,
some critically. As more information emerges
about the cause of this horrible accident,

said

many nightclubs are reexarnining their fa-
cilities and the potential ﬁre risk they pose.

Here at Washington & Lee, univer-
sity officials have been reexamining fra-
ternity basements to ensure that they are
a safe party enviromnent foristudents. In
the past, the University has not taken an
official stance on the use of pyrotechnics
by bands brought on to campus. How-
ever, as a direct result of the accident in
Rhode Island, Washington & Lee’s Safety
Ofﬁcer Paul Burns has drafted a letter to
the fraternities stating that all individuals
negotiating contracts with a band must

aternity parties in light of nights

ensure before hiring them that no pyro-
technics will be used in their act. The let-
ter be run through the university counsel
and should be sent out next week. In the
meantime, the Safety Director has been
taking several other steps to ensure‘ that
parties are safe for students. He is work-
ing with the Fancy Dress committee to
make sure that none of the bands that will
perform will use pyrotechnics in their act.
He has also reprimanded fraternities which
have thrown theme parties with a high ﬁre
risk. For example, one fraternity that filled
a room with anti-static peanuts received

SEE BRIEF, PAGE 2

ubfire

both a complaint from him and a letter from
Dean Atkins stating that packing peanuts
and other ﬂammable ﬂoor covering such as
sawdust are strictly banned.

While pyrotechnics are a dangerous
fire and risk and while the university is tak-
ing some steps to make fraternity parties
safer, fraternity basements pose a much
smaller safety risk than nightclubs such as
the one in Rhode Island. The Station was a
wooden structure and was in violation of
basic fire safety codes. However fraternity

SEE FRATS, PAGE 2

Na’lspeaker
will address
ea ing disorders

BY KYLE WASS
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

This past week marked National Eating Disorders Aware-
ness Week, from February 24-— March 3. The Washington
and Lee community has marked the event with a presenta-
tion by Caroline Miller, a nationally known speaker on the
subject, as well as informational cards throughout campus.
An estimated 10 million people in the United States
suffer from one or more eating disorders, and 90% of that
ﬁgure is made up of teenage girls and women. The most
common eating disorders are Anorexia Nervosa, and Bu-
limia Nervosa, both characterized by periods of starving
oneself, among other symptoms. A person with anorexia
suffers excessive and unhealthy
weight loss due to restrictive eating,
feeling “fat” despite being dramati-
cally underweight, and an intense fear
of weight gain, which lead to other,
more serious and life-threatening
health problems. Bulimia is charac-
terized by secretive bingeing and
purging. Abulimic will overeat exces-
sive amounts of food and then try to
get rid of the food through vorriiting,
use of laxatives, or fasting, among other methods. Both
situations cause serious and long—tenn consequences for
both physical and emotional health. Anorexia can cause
loss of muscle mass, fatigue, low bone density, low blood
pressure, hair loss, loss of menstrual periods, and a growth
of ﬁne hair on the body. Sufferers may never be able to
get pregnant and their habits may result in severe os-
teoporosis. Bulimia causes chronic digestive problems
and chemical imbalances that adversely affect the heart
and other major organs, resulting in the possibility of sud-
den death.
Dr. Jane Horton atthe Student Health Center said that eating
disorders are “as prevalent [at Washington and lee], if not more
prevalent, than in the general population,” likely due to the com-
petitive nature of the school, where people “push themselves in
every aspect, including appearance.” Areoent survey of college
women found that 91% of women had attempted to control their
weight through dieting. People with eating disorders are often
very secretive about their eating problems, so many cases go
undiagnosed and untreated Aside from
the students at Washington and Lee re-
ceiving treatment for an eating disorder,
there are “many more not in treatment,”
according to Dr. Horton.
Because part of the illness is a state
of denial, many young women do not go
to seek counseling or treatment on their
own, so Dr. Horton stressed that “if ﬁiends
can be aware, that makes a diﬂerence,”
and that people need to be aware of how
common eating disorders are, know the
warning signs, and be aware of the resources available for treat-
ment. The sooner the illness is recognized and treatment be-
gins, the more successful the treatment is likely to be. Effective

. treatment includes “a combination of counseling or psycho-
therapy, nutritional treatment and medical care,” according to Dr.
Horton. Psychological treatment, to help prevent relapse, must
be aimed at the underlying causes of the eating disorder, as well
as the behaviors and symptoms.

Washington and Lee currently offers many resources for
those who are suffering from eating disorders, as well as for
friends and family. Psychological conditions that are not di-
rectly related to eating disorders have caused a tenfold increase
in the cases Washington and Lee counselors have seen in the
past few years. Washington and Lee offers evaluation of eating
disorders and other psychological conditions at the University
Counseling Center (x8590) andthe Student Health Center (x8401),
as well as help from peer counselors and the Ofﬁce of Health
Promotion (x4501). Washington and Lee also offers a com-
pletely oonﬁdential support group with Dr. Christy Barongan at

SEE EATING DISORDERS, PAGE 2

I MILLER

    

 HRON

 

 

i  raxrmassw
’-.?":'?‘?*.Y‘l'.ﬁ!,V!A amp

PAGE 2

WAR 0 6 2003

    

mail news briefs to

16 W&L Students Heading to Capitol Hill

Sixteen Washington and Lee University students will
be spending the spring semester with some of the nation’s
most respected companies and government ofﬁces, in-
cluding CBS, C-Span, The White House and the oﬂices of
Congressmen Robert Goodlatte (R—Va.) and Joseph Wil-
son (R-S.C.) in the Spring 2003 Washington Term Pro-
gram.

About 250 students annually pursue majors in the
Williams School of Commerce, Economics, and Politics.
W&L is the only university among the top 25 national
liberal arts colleges with a nationally accredited school of
business. W&L also is ranked the 15”‘ best liberal arts
institution in the country, according to U.S. News and
World Report.

Christopher Hitchens to Speak

Christopher Hitchens, a longtime columnist for The
Nation, Vogue, Granta and The London Review of Books,
will discuss his work on Wednesday, March 5, at 7:30 p.m.
in Lee Chapel at Washington and Lee University. The
speech is open to the public without charge. It is spon-
sored by W&L’s student-rim Contact Committee.

Christopher Cokinos to Speak

On March 18, Christopher Cokinos, author of Hope is
the Thing with Feathers, will speak in Northen Audito-
rium at 5:00. Hope is the Thing with Feathers draws paral-
lels between the extinction of 6 different birds and Cokinos’
own life experiences Written for the lay person, the book
focuses on Cokinos’ personal reactions to the various
species’ descent into natural disappearance.

W&L Ethics Defends lit/e

A team of Washington and Lee University students’

will defend the University’s winning debate record on
Monday (February 24) at the statewide Ethics Bowl Com-
petition sponsored by major corporations and the Virginia
Foundation for Independent Colleges.

The team of four W&L undergraduates, coached by
James E. Mahon, an assistant professor of philosophy,
will compete against student debate teams representing
14 other private colleges across Virginia in the fourth an-
nual competition, which this year focuses on ethical di-
lemmas in business in the wake of the Enron scandal.

Caroline Miller to Speak

Caroline Miller, author and noted speaker and expert
on eating disorders, will speak today at 7:30 in Lee Chapel.
Her speech is being Sponsored by LIFE, Panhellenic,
WLSO, KEWL and Women’s Forum.

Prof. Paul Griffiths to Speak

Iowa State University History Professor Paul Grifﬁths
will speak on “Moll Cut-Purse, Cross-Dressing, and the
Gendering of Crime in Early Seventeenth Century Lon-
don” on Monday, March 3 at 7:30 p.m. in Northen Audito-
rium in Leybum Library on the Washington and Lee Uni-
versity campus. The talk is free and open to the public.

Grifﬁths received his Ph.D. from Cambridge Univer-
sity. His publications include the soon to be released book,
“The First Bridewell: Petty Crime, Policing and Prison in
London, 1545- 1 660.” He is also the author of “Youth and
Authority: Formative Experiences in England, 1560-1640”
(Clarendon Press, 1996). He co-edited the collection of

 
 
 

 

essays, “Londinopolis: Essays in the Cultural and Social
History of Early Modern London,” (Manchester Univer-
sity Press, 2001).

Prof. Richard Martin to Speak

Emory University Professor Richard C. Martin will
discuss the events of Sept. 11 with Washington and Lee
University students on Wednesday, March 5, at 4:30 p.m.
in the Northen Auditorium of Leybum Library.

Martin, who will deliver a University-wide address
the following day, is scheduled on March 5 to discuss
“September 1 1 : Clash of Civilizations or Islamic Reforma-
tion.”

Prof. Velasquez Publishes New Book

Professor Eduardo Velasquez of the Politics Depart-
ment has recently published a new book, Love and Friend-
ship: Rethinking Politics and Aﬂection in Modern Times.

Velasquez’s book, published by Lexington Books, a
member of the Rowman & Littleﬁeld Publishing Group, is
an ambitious investigation of the most inﬂuential accounts
of love and friendship in Western history. A unique explo-
ration of the most compelling human affections and asso-
ciations, Velasquez probes the depth of the intimate rela-
tionship between psychology and political life.

W&L Biologist Receive NSF Funding

The National Science Foundation (NSF) has awarded
a $374,754 grant to Washington and Lee University biolo-
gists David M. Marsh and Paul R. Cabe for their continu-
ing study on how the building of roads is increasingly
fragmenting threatened forest habitats.

The three-year NSF grant will enable the W&L fac-
ulty members and their undergraduate students to inten-
sify their ﬁeld surveys, ﬁeld experiments and genetic analy-
ses to determine how different types of roads affect the
density, dispersal and gene ﬂow among terrestrial sala-
manders in forest habitats.

George Singleton to Speak

George Singleton, writer and author of the recent book
of short stories, “The Half Mammals of Dixie,” ‘will speak
in the Northern Auditorium on March 24th, at 4:30

Singleton’s work has appeared in The Atlantic
Monthly, Playboy, and Shenandoah. The Half Mammals
of Dixie follows Singleton’s ﬁrst book of short stories
These People Are Us and has the distinction of being one
of the top ten books published in 2002, according to the
editors of Amazon.com. His stories have appeared in ﬁve
volumes of the annual anthology New Stories From the
South.

Shepherd Prog. Receives Federal Grant

Washington and Lee University will receive a $500,000
grant recently approved by Congress to expand and en-
hance the Shepherd Poverty Program, which merges stu-
dents’ academic study of national and global poverty is-
sues with intensive ﬁeld work in the United States "and
LatinAmerica.

The Congressional grant, part of this year’s omnibus
appropriations bill, was advanced by Sixth District Rep.
Robert L. Goodlatte, chairman of the House Agriculture
Committee, and Sen. John Warner, chairman of the Senate
Armed Services Committee. Assisting them in their ef-
forts on behalf of the unique W&L program was Sen. Tom
Harkin (D-Iowa).

Valerie Wayne to Speak

University of Hawaii Distinguished Professor Valerie
Wayne will speak at Washington and Lee University on
Monday, March 10, at 7:30 p.m. in the Northern Audito-
rium of Leybum Library. Wayne will discuss her studies
of English and literature in her lecture, titled “Shakespeare’s

 
 
 
      
    

Cymbeline, Colonialism and the Ancient Britons.”

She holds a B.A. from DePauw University and an
M.A. and Ph.D. from the University of Chicago. Wayne
teaches courses on Shakespeare, Renaissance women
writers, feminist literary criticism, English Studies and lit-
erature. The lecture is free and open to the public.

Alice Steinbach to Speak

Pulitzer‘Prize-winning writer Alice Steinbach will be
this year’s Washington and Lee University Woodrow Wil-
son Visiting Fellow, visiting with classes and students in
several departments during the week of March 24.

Steinbach, who won the 1985 Pulitzer as a feature
writer with the Baltimore Sun, will deliver a lecture entitled
“A Short Guide to An Interesting Life” on Wednesday,
March 26, at 7:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel. The lecture is free
and open to the public.

1 Lexington

Weekly

 

Forecast
Monday- Mostly Surmy, 40/26

Tuesday- Partly Cloudy, 54/46
Wednesday- Showers, 46/29
Thursday- Mostly Cloudy, 50/35
Friday- Showers, 59/44
Saturday- Showers, 57/41

Sunday- Scattered Showers, 53/32

MONDAY. MARCH 3. 2003

Sororities learn
consequences
of ‘risky behavior’

BY MEGAN MORGAN
SENIOR snrr wrzrrnz

On March 2, members of W&L’s ﬁve sororities
attended “Something of Value,” a seminar focused on
the problems that arise from under age drinking, haz-
ing, alcohol abuse and other risky behavior. It addressed
the consequences of these actions and created a plan
of action in order to deal with them in the most appro-
priate way. The seminar was organized by representa-
tives from the National Panhellenic Conference and
was attended by the chapter president, social chair-
man, recruitment chairman, and Panhellenic delegate
from every sorority as well as two sophomore and two
freshmen members from each sorority. The program
also included a mock trial in which sorority members
and W& L Panhellinic ofﬁcers played the role of wit-
nesses and jury members. The trial involved a civil
lawsuit by a member ’s parents and touched on alcohol
and hazing related issues. Teresa Glassman, director of
student activities who helped coordinate “Something
of Value,” said of its seminar ,” As sorority women
come together to meet the challenges that face today’s
Greek and campus communities, purposeﬁil dialogue
is an essential component of development and posi-
tive change. Having seen “Something of Value” in ac-
tion on other campuses, I believe it will provide an
opportunity to capture the leadership talents and vi-
sions of our student leaders.”

Speakerto address eating disorders

EATING DISORDERS, FROM PAGE 1

3 p.m. on Thursdays in Fairfax Lounge. Atape of last
Monday’s documentary, Perfect Illusions: Eating Disor-
ders and the Family, among other informational videos,
are available with the Ofﬁce of Health Promotions as well.
Washington and Lee is also hosting speaker Caroline
Miller, at a presentation titled Dying To Be Thin — which

all the sororities are required to attend — on Monday,
March 3 at 7:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel.

The Student Health Center has also created a bulletin
board in which the Fancy Dress 2003 poster girl has been
dressed up to make her more realistic. Upset that the ﬁgure
pictures a woman suffering of anorexia, the Health Center
has added about 10-20 pounds around her hips in an effort to
make her look healthier, according to Nurse Barbara Woolston.

Quotas: W&L admin.

BRIEF, FROM PAGE 1

Dean of Students Courtney Penn.
A Court decision against afﬁrrnative
action, therefore, could possibly in-
ﬂuence its affirmative action policy.

Further, other preferences, such
as legacy or socioeconomic status,
could also come under legal assault.

W&L therefore considers race
“as one of many factors in the admis-

sions process, like legacy status, gen-
der, extracurricular and leadership ac-
tivities, athletic participation and
achievements,” White said.

Race, however, remains the prime
reason for the ﬁling. ’

“One of W&L’s goals is in-
creased racial diversity on our cam-
pus,” White said. Last term, whites
made up 88.4 percent of students;
blacks, 3.5 percent; Asians, 2 percent;

Due to the ingenuity of the 2003 Lambda Chi Alpha
pledge class, the March 3, 2003 issue of The Ring-tum Phi
and The Washington and Lee University campus will be
slightly less opinionated this week. They kidnapped the
Opinions editor, Brett Kirwan, and left him in Times
Square, New York City, New York. Thanks pledges.

s ays ‘ no ’
and Hispanics, 0.7 percent, accord-
ing to the University’s Institutional
Effectiveness web page.
Though W&L has joined the
brief, it did not compose it, nor was it
_ one of 18 colleges that appended an
“individual statement” to its end.
OnApril 1, the Supreme Court will
hear the oral arguments on the two
Michigan cases, Gratz v. Bollinger; et.
al. and Grutter v. Bollingeig et. al.

 
 

 

FRATERNITIES, FROM PAGE 1 P°°P1° 3 better °PP°““nit>’ t° 95°31”
“Asfarastheﬁatsgo,o1hertlranafew
basements Paul Burns states “are con- theme parties where they put ﬂammables

crete, they have ﬁre alarms and all but
one has a sprinkler system.”As aresult,
even if a ﬁre was to break out, it would
probably spread at a much slower rate,
be more easily extinguished and give

ontheﬂoor,Idon’tseeaproblem The
basements are mostly concrete and
cinderblocks, sothereisnothingthere1m-
less you bring something into ﬁnnish ﬁiel
forthe ﬁre,”said“so1mdman”BobbySmith

for agood time, (I)

Dixie. on our Veranda
.l\/lay-v()s::t<)'i.ter

 rs e.........._......j ‘

illlli

HOUSE"

Restaurant

..... .. r

rikgjoy e?r.’}:3:§.«z;r.rt ciiizir-tg in at restored’ 1820 Clas5ica!Rc*t=*z'i1)a£
2”r‘:3;%:£..*§';t§.9(}u.«I¢.’ in é’7i3ior‘2’c doazizrowa .z’..exing2*tm

  
  
   
    

“Ihe Q3est food in Lexirgton”
~C0ni{e Mast ‘Irar/ehr

TuestIay—5atun{ay

2003

30 North Main Street
in Downtown Lexington
(540) 463-3020
wwzr/.wi[£s0nwa[ker.c0rn

fine Diniry of £7{ist0ric T’r0p0rti0ns I

Lunch 11:30—2:30 ﬂinner 5:30-9:00
(Saturday Lunch not serz/erfjan.-{Man}

Reservations Jiequesterffor the fancy Dress Gaff —

  3   »...

U

    

 giégnra‘ i;
. P9.9.ll"”9 ..EVe"_t5.5  
..ta.'sa. at ila: é..;‘t-.l.l<s.‘}i.;nt‘ {E ﬁg. t...i;.r.::-*: %;li€;..l’§:,
Mason .3 ...°\§ 5°‘r°l 7%‘ W 71%»
.~.§av2:>i  lip-: *f...;»i'i{.:1.j”"’ ti  2.. <3 €.Zvi’iT.€;.I}.,,
lV\p.e.cg— 0 General hzemzsstog-'+ .
giiara al. ‘i.lé«:::?t Cgiiié§;),,:e> .ira.*“z;i  
t'\i-seer: \'l  Gram: NW6.-
»1;;°r‘%.?'éEi at i;i:::é €.§«7i7i.(.:E..:l”i ;ié.i1.««*t_-ae at ta
~.,M M'*°"‘ 1'3  Cukitouﬁ g  
Jars. at the t;~.iti.{.};.j«"e slate at i.it:;: i.§‘;.l‘:t<..I3
 (Si 09:» Mir. NW6-

 

Make a difference this
summer while having the

time of your life.
Counselors and activity leaders needed to
work at summer camps for children and
adults with disabilities. Camps located near
Richmond and Roanoke, Virginia. Camp
season: early June—mid August.

www.va.easter'—seals.or'g/richmond

Visit our‘ website at

or call (804) 633-9855.

‘A

4

2.
e 1
<\, ..>.

\..,

_,+'-x\§ _. .,,-e _
%$.cC‘»°‘ ﬂ . ' », W

 

... .4‘,

.::.»   by
;\..-1 iazr‘

9
WW

 

HAVE A GREAT FANCY DRESS-
Callus for your dinner needs

  

35 North Main Street
Lexington, VA 24450
(540)464-1887

 

 

  

MONDAY. MARCH 5. 2003

BY KYLE WASS
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

On”Ihutsday,March6,at 12:15 p.m.,

Washington and Lee will induct students

V into the prestigious Phi Beta Kappa so-
ciety of the Cincinnati convention.

Professor Richard C. Martin of

Emory University will speak at Wash-

ington and Lee’s Gamma of Virginia

V

V chapter convocation with a presenta-

tion entitled ‘”The Ethics of Saving and
Taking Life: A Comparative Analysis
of Recent Muslim Discourses on

N EWS

Jihad.” Martin is a distinguished pro-
fessor of Islamic Studies at Emory, and
a former professor of religious stud-
ies at Iowa State University and Ari-
zona State University.

Phi Beta Kappa is an honor soci-
ety that promotes the liberal arts
through fellowships, service awards
and literary awards, and which now
claims more than 600,000 members
throughout the country. Roughly
1 5,000 new members are elected a year,
after being nominated by their chap-
ter. According to Phi Beta Kappa’s

Web site, www.pbk.org, their golden
key symbol is widely recognized as a
symbol of academic achievement, and
the society is involved in a number of
advocacy programs to “spread the
message about the beneﬁts of a lib-
eral arts education.” Students inter-
ested in becoming a member of Phi
Beta Kappa should contact their chap-
ter officer for guidance on require-
ments and curriculum.

This year ’s inductees are as follows:

Class of 2003: Carolyn Anne
Campbell, Paul Martin Dampf, Julia

Elizabeth Fitzer, Agnes Maria Flak,
Avery Flinn Gholston, Allison Michelle
Gruer1wald,KyleGlennHealy,EIicGerad
Klingelhofer, Christopher Chance
Moreland, David Andrew Newheiser,
Kara Elisabeth Peterson, Courtney
Renee Ross, Claire Gibbons Smith, Jay
Randall Thomas, Carroll Armour Th-
ompson, Jeanne Ann Upchurch, Abigail
Van Veen, Courtney Pauline Warner,
Allison Semmes Warren, Jordan
Danforth Wolﬂ“, Ruth Hill Yeilding.
Class of 2004: Heather Elaine
Bane, Jonathan David Browder,

‘Phi Beta Kappa to induct 40 students

Mateo Caballero, Cullen O’Neill
Carter, Heather Lynn Coleman, Natalie
Gwen Deibel, Patrick Michael Fleming,
Austin Inj ae Kim, Lauren Lee LaRue,
Kemal Levi, Rebecca Marie Mitchell,
Christopher Adam Overholtzer,
Abigail Lauren Perdue, Benjamin
Nathan Rumley, Harry William
Schroeder, Elizabeth Maury Stegall,
Emily Michelle Tyson, Kenneth Lloyd
Walker, James Craig Zunka.

Class of 2002: LisaArm Chew.

Honorary Election: Richard C.
Martin, Professor, Emory University.

‘Atkins has long history at Washington and Lee

BY IMRAN NAEEMULLAH
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

Y,

At many schools across the country, a
dean whose job is specifically to deal with
V Greek affairs might seem incongruous. How-
i ever, at Washington and Lee, where approxi-
mately three-quarters of the student body
are members of Greek organizations, it is a
must. For over 15 years, Buddy Atkins has
4 served as an associate dean of students,
with a special emphasis on Greek affairs. Yet
Atkins’ connection to this school goes much
further than his work as a dean. A 1968
graduate of Washington and Lee and a mem-
ber of Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity, he has
spent the better part of the last half century
at W&L.
Atkins’ journey to W&L was almost by
V chance. A native of Raleigh, N.C., he had
wanted to attend Davidson College since he
was in junior high. However, during his se-
nior year of high school, he attended
Davidson’s Homecoming festivities and re-
alized that something didn’t quite resonate,
and so he decided to start looking elsewhere.
One of the places he looked was, of course,
Washington and Lee, and his experience
if from the school got off to a good start. He
recalls putting a letter in the mail on a Mon-
day morning asking for more information
about the school, and receiving a response
by the end of the week. The next weekend,
‘ he and a friend drove up to Lexington to
tour the campus, and Atkins remembers
thinking how it was exactly as a college cam-
pus ought to be. That weekend was the same
yone that President Kennedy was assassi-
nated,Vso the nation was in] a period of

mourning, yet Atkins was pleasantly taken
aback by how graciously he was treated
despite the tragedy hanging in the air.
Needless to say, when he was offered ad-
mission for the fall, he gladly accepted it.
Atkins was a German major, but because
he finished his major by his junior year, he
decided to add another major, which was
known at the time as Contemporary Civiliza-
tion, and which was taught as a history
course integrating, among other courses,
much of his work in German, making it an
ideal second major. He was also active in ath-
letics, playing tennis, football and lacrosse
for W&L. He recalls that lacrosse was an es-
pecially competitive sport, because
at the time, W&L competed in la-
crosse as a Division I school.
After graduation, Atkins
spent several years teaching and
coaching at Virginia Episcopal
School in Lynchburg, during
which time he also attended Of-
ficer Candidate School for the
U.S. Navy to fulfill his service re-
quirement during the Vietnam
War. By the late l970’s, Atkins
was ready for a change and wanted to re-
turn to W&L. He secured a position in the
Alumni Office, serving for nine years as
both assistant director and then later as
associate director. Around 1983, he was
asked to assist with efforts relating to
renovating the fraternity houses, the
famed “Fraternity Renaissance,” and this
work made him a natural candidate for the
new dean’s position dealing with Greek
affairs. Atkins has now been serving in

this position for years, and has no plans

 

TKINS

to retire. One of Atkins’ favorite aspects
Of his job has been the ability to be in-
volved with changes in the structure of
the University. During the Fraternity Re-
naissance, he says he greatly enjoyed
helping to select the architects and talk-
ing to the alumni of various houses, con-
vincing them to sell their houses to the
University and then lease them back. Like
many others involved in the Renaissance,
he feels that it has made a positive contri-
bution to life on campus, particularly with
regard to respect for property.

Although Atkins does not directly in-
teract with Greek organizations on a daily
basis—for example, both the IFC
and Panhellenic Council have ad-
visors—he does actively collabo-
rate with fraternity housing corpo-
rations, helping to continue to
steer them in a positive direction.
In addition, he remains involved
with SAE, serving as their treasurer
emeritus, and continuing to visit
the chapter house and interacting
with the brothers.

His latest project is the Uni-
versity Commons, the planning of which
he has been involved in for many years.
He is very optimistic for its future, grow-
ing visibly excited as he talks about the
various benefits it will offer the W&L com-
munity. He especially looks forward to what
he hopes will be increased interaction be-
tween students and faculty, undergradu-
ates and law students, as well as Greeks
and independents. He also touts the in-
creased amenities it will offer, such as a
food court and a movie theater. To top it all

off, he says that it will all be ready by the
summer, so come Fall Term, the entire com-
munity will be able to enjoy it.

In the future, Atkins would like to see
more and better student housing made avail-
able. He feels that the present residence halls
are not conducive to building a sense of com-
munity, a key W&L trait he feels has declined
since he was a student. He would like to see
new, smaller dorms constructed with some
faculty housing adjoining, offering a greater
sense of togetherness. He would also like to
see more options for upperclassmen offered,
so that living off-campus is not the only at-
tractive option for juniors and seniors. He
says it is not necessarily a good thing that
nearly half the student body could be con-
sidered a commuter population judging by
their residence status. That said, he does not
want to see on-campus residence made man-
datory for all four years, since he does rec-
ognize the attractiveness of having one’s own
place.

At home, Atkins lives with his wife, and
enjoys the visits of his children, Drewry ’93
and Cole ’97. He also continues his lifelong in-
volvement in athletics, although he laments
that he is not as active as he used to be. Never-
theless, he does find the time to play golf and
tennis, go ﬂy ﬁshing, canoeing, as well as hik-
ing and taking walks. He laughs, “I never dis-
covered the outdoor activities in the Lexington
area while I was a student because I was a three-
sport athlete,” but points out that he is very
glad of the possibilities now. No doubt that the
present generation of students, grateful for the
Outing Club, will not take as long to discover
the abundance of activities available, and
Atkins surely would approve.

PAGE 3

 

A notice from

The Executive Committee
of THE STUDENT BODY

Gerald M. Titus, III
President

Kempton W. Presley
Vice President

Helen B. Hughes
Secretary

February 13,2003

A member of the Student
Body has withdrawn after
being charged with a
possible Honor Violation.
The student chose not to
have a closed Executive
Committee Hearing. The
student was charged with
lying to a professor about
a Politics ﬁnal exam.

PHI

 

Tm   

Editor in chief Katie J. Howell
Arts & Life Editor Catherine C. Guy
Photo Editor Jeb Brooks
Sports Editor Erin Julius

Asst. News Editor Caley Anderson

Photographers Tallie Jamison
Cody Gabbard
Copy Editor Donny Banks

Business Manager
Circulation Director

Thomas Worthy
Henry Grimball

Advertising Assistant McQueen C3lVe"t

zne-7' PIn'is,“"“ ‘,duringthe 4, 1
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
The Washington and Lee Publications Board elects the Editor in
chief, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.
7heRing-nan Phi welcomes all tesporrible submimions and letter: All
stbvrrixiottsntusbee-rmiledtoptIi@wlued\Icnrinthe Unive:sityCexIer
mailbox by 5 pm Friday toappatr in the following weck'seditiovL Pie
Ring-lumPhiIBI:'vcsttr:righ1I1'Jedils|l:vtitssKxIs" foroonletlandlenglh.
Letmsamloolurnrtsdotttxtmemti r:tlet:tdIeo|x'IIkxiof7heRing-run
PhiEdimr'nlBoanl. AdvertisitIgd0esrKIIeﬂuxtheopitIionsofT}IeRr'rqz-
amrﬁrioritssaﬂ‘. ‘ihisrrewqxperobservesunternanntkﬁttnionsofliael
and obscenity.

The urn.-mu Phi
Maililg Addrur: Un1wvslI,v Center
Washington andlte Iinimsuy
uringran, Virginia 21450
sum Address: 31 Washington Sow:
Lzringlon. Virginia 24450

Telephone: rm; 1624060
ﬁn.‘ 1540; 463-1059

Ermu'I:phi@uIu.rdu

 

 

n
MARCH 1 3-1 5, ZOO3
i .
. PRE V IE W  EEI<El.\ID
S CHOOL OF COMMUNICATION & THE ARTS
' MEET CURRENT STUDENTS, FACULTY AND ADMISSIONS STAFF
AND TOUR THE NEW MEDIA AND PERFORMING ARTS CENTER
‘{ COSTS: WHO SHOULD ATTEND?
° A $135 REGISTRATION PACKAGE (FER JUNIORS & SENIORS INTERESTEI) IN A
PERSON) INCLUDES A LIGHT RECEPTION GRADUATE DEGREE IN THE
,( ON THURSDAY NIGHT, THREE MEALS COMMUNICATION ARTS:
ON FRIDAY, BREAKFAST ON SATURDAY +TI-LLEVISION
AND LODGING FOR THURSDAY AND +FILM
V1511‘ Us DURING lj?R1D.;¥ NIGHTS 9N CAMPUS AT +£HEATRE
, V _ V HE OUNDERS NN. + NIMATION
Ar PREVIEW WEEKEND ° A $59 PACI<AGI-9: INCLUDES CONFI:«:RI-:=.NCIa: +]OURNAI..IsM
AVD SEE  AND l\/II€i.AI,S WITH NO LODGING. +COMI\IUNICATION STUIDIES
w REGENT UNIVERSITY TRANSPORTATION:
Is ONE OF THE E HE UNIv(E)Rs1EY’s FOL%\I(/DERSGINN COME PREVIEW THE FUTURE
OCATED N AMPUS ILL LADLY
FASTEST”GROWING PROVIDE ROUND TRIP SHUTTLE SERVICE OF MEDIA EDUCATION IN A
:1 . T . _, ., . ., ‘
GRADUATE SCHOOLS EUR YOL. FROIM N§RI«OI.R INéI;RNATION.AI.
IN THE WORLD.  ESALHII ORIOLR Rl.+.YHOLl\1) CHRISTIAN ENVIRONMENT.
x
* <sITY.
I000 REGENT UNIVERSITY DRIVE, VIRGINIA BEACH, VA 23464-9800
757.226.4018 0 Fax 757.226.4039
' E-mail: preview@regent.edu
www.regent.edu/preview
N

 

PAGE 4

 

I

CATHERINECGUY‘
ARis&LrEEDr1OR ,
FMAll.'GUYC@Wlll.PI)U

MONDAY, MARCH 3, 2003

Gods and Generals receives mixed reviews from W&L students ‘A

Pro:

BY JEE BROOKS
PHOTO EDITOR

If you love Lexington, want to
know more about what it was like to hve
in the mid-19'“ century and have some
time to devote to that endeavor, Gods
and Generals is for you. The story,
adapted from Jeﬂ‘Shaaia’s book for ﬁlm
by Ronald Maxwell, tells the story of
the period leading up to and including
the first months of the War Between
the States, preceding 1993 ’s Gettysburg.

This epic is a historical jaunt
through Civil War era Virginia and
Maryland. Gods and Generals focuses
on the social-liistory of the period. This
makes the movie slow, but it is for effect.

The numerous references to
Lexingtonarecertairilyaboontoﬂieﬁlm
The most entertaining part of the movie
is the exchange between Professor and
Captain White of our own Washington
College and Thomas Jackson of The
Virginia Military Institute. Keepyourears
open for that one!

The bottom line: yes, you will need
a rather extended length of time to
devote to the ﬁlm and it is no general-
audience box-ofﬁce smash, but for those
who like the period, this movie is worth
seeing as soon as possible. This ﬁhn is
designed for those of us who have a
reverence for the past, and feel that the
period is an important part of that.

The preponderance of reviewers to
distribute single stars, D+’s or F’s to the
ﬁlm shows nothing but their ignorance;
at least in my humble opinion. See it,
enjoy it and don’t sleep through it.

PREPARING FOR BATTLE: Soldiers march onto the battleﬁeld in the recently released

Civil War epic, Gods and Generals. Much of this film features Lexington and its two

Artistic opportunities explode onto campus

Strangely enough, the arts calendar of events at
W&L seems to parallel the schedule of all W&L activities
— one week there is nothing going on, the following week,
everything is going on. The week before February break
was quite an exciting time for the arts
at W&L and Lexington and an
appraisal for them is long overdue.
In light of this new column and my
being an avid arts-lover, I had high
ambitions of attending every single
event of that particular week...and
came very close.

First, I attended the “Music from
China” concert. Who would have ever thought that
Washington and Lee could bring such a prestigious and
talented Chinese folk music group to Lexington, Virginia
for a Friday night concert? Their resume was quite
impressive, with concerts at the Metropolitan Museum of
Art, Carnegie Hall, Lincoln Center, San Diego Museum of
Art, and the Library of Congress. But even this extensive
list was just a mere background check — a preparation for
the audience — for a performance that was every bit as
impressive.

Their music was categorized as “traditional and
contemporary music.” The best description I can give is
bluegrass or folk music in Chinese form — I’d never heard
anything quite like it. With titles such as “Birds in the
Forest,” “The Fishennan’s Night Song,” and the “Wedding
Processional,” each song brilliantly captured the imagery
of the natural setting and the inﬂuence of the culture. I
think my favorite was “On the Grasslands.” According to
the excerpt under the title, this song “created a panoramic
view of nomadic life on the Mongolian
steppes.” Oh, so much more can be
said! The entire piece gave feelings

"”OTTHE”'ATRT§'T


harmonic note. However, in hearing Joyful Noise sing
with all their heart and watching them sway to the beat
of the music in the front of the church, I couldn’t help
but move my feet, clap my hands, and burst out singing
as though some tamed emotion
inside me had let loose and gone
‘wild — it was great! Haha! Even at
this moment while writing this
article, reﬂecting about my Sunday
church experience, l’m beaming
and I cannot help but feel, well,
joyful!

They always say that you’ve
got to let the Holy Spirit “get inside you,” feel it within
the depths of your soul. I don’t know what the heck
“got inside me” that day, but if the Holy Spirit feels
anything like what I felt that day, then Joyful Noise
has “got the power!” So, if you’re searching for
“something more” out of church/religion/God in
general, or if you just want a little “spark” of something
different, I recommend hearing Joyful Noise — their
music completely changed the so-called “normal”
experience of church services. They sing every second
Sunday of the month at First Baptist Church.

When I was a freshman, a senior told me that W&L
was too small of a school to produce musicals —
supposedly, we didn’t have the talent or interest. I don’t
think he, nor anyone else for that matter, could have
predicted the overwhelming interest or outstanding
talent of Working. W&L’s production of Working was
more than a success. A talented cast, in collaboration
with a brilliant student director, presented the audience
with a unique perspective of the
working world.

Working was directed by

of openness and freedom, as though IT TAKES ACERTAIN senior Agnes Flak. Arranged by
we were riding horseback on the vast UNIQUE TALENT To scenes each depicting a different
grasslands of the China like the PERFORMINAMUSICAL. occupation, the musical presented
Mongolians once did, many years JUST THINK ABOUT IT _ “the other side” of a job, from the
ago.Th b ' h 1 SINGINGISHARDENOUGH. perspectlilve that we dofn’t usu211(lly

e song egan wit a sing e ‘ notice-t e ers ectiveo the wor er.
instrument, the zhonghu, playing a BUT To SING AND No one stopps tolfhink about the effort
beat that imitated a galloping horse, PRETEND YOU ARE A of farmers who grow the lettuce we
and I pictured myself on a horse, COMPLETELY DIFFERENT use for our salads. No one thinks

wind blowing through my hair, riding
solo towards the sunset. The other
instruments soon joined in and
slowed the rhythm, creating the
image of an entire group of people
on a journey, riding their horses
together, off to some unknown destination. And as the
piece came to a close, the zhonghu player once again
played solo, this time to a slower rhythm, making it seem
as though an old, tired and lone rider slowly rode away
into the setting sun.

After the concert, my friend Gini turned to me and
said, “Hey, should I buy a cd? After all, when else will I
be able to buy a cd like this!” I smiled and thought about
the concert in general. When else in our life would we be
able to attend a concert like this — to hear a well known,
genuine Chinese folk group playing songs on truly
unique instruments that depicted their history and
culture? At that moment, I felt truly blessed.

Speaking of “blessedness,” I heard Joyful Noise
sing on Sunday at the First Baptist Church on Main
Street — talk about feeling the music inside you! I must
admit, I cannot sing and do not possess a single

PERSON, ALL AT THE SAME
TIME. . .Tl-IAT IS DEFINITELY
TALENT.

about the hard work construction
workers put into the building of the
roads we drive on. No one thinks
about the truck drivers, the
prostitutes, or the phone operators
and how they view their job and life.
Some embrace work ~ such as the assiduous
businesswoman or the enthusiastic waitress. Others do
it because their fathers and grandfathers did it and
therefore it was natural and assumed. For some, it was
just a way of life, a way to earn a living for their children.
And for others, work provided a means for thought,
reﬂection, and epiphany.

It takes a certain unique talent to perform in a
musical. Just think about it — singing is hard enough.
But to sing and pretend you are a completely different
person, all at the same time. . .that is deﬁnitely talent.
And from my perspective, the actors and actresses in
Working performed with such ease and grace, I couldn’t
help but think that it came naturally for them, almost
instinctively. That is what constitutes a fabulous
musical.

Next week: the King’s Singers.

PllOl0(XI)RIF5YWMVl~Kll.YlMXD.(X]vl

most famous sons. Robert E. Lee and Stonewall Jackson. The students of W&L, as
well as critics at large have reacted in a variety of different ways to the film.

Athletic passion smo

Con:   lr

BY BARRETT DAWS

STAFF ll

Film critic Kit Bowen’s advice toll‘
“Stay far away from the three hour?“
plus Gods and Generals-unless, of-1
course, you need a good nap” should‘l
be taken into consideration by those if
planning to view this ﬁlm.

Gods and Generals is one of the’ 1
most boring Civil War documentaries . It‘(
seemed as if ﬂie screenplay writers took 1
their lines straight from a textbook. The" AV
ﬁlm agonizes through the ﬁrst halfoftheb
war by meticulously drawing out some-"'5
key battles and the personalities of some“
Civil War Generals, most notably 1,
Confederate General Stonewall Jackson.”
TheﬁlmshouldhavebeenaP.H.D. paper?
entitled The Involvement of General
Thomas “Stonewall ” Jackson in the’?
Course of Events of the War between the‘ ’
States rather than a movie. 0*

Not only was the script and plot‘
boririgsowerethecinematicsandspecial’
effects. Films such as Glory, Gettysburgb V
and Saving Private Ryan, offer the!
audienoeasenseofthetruehorrorofwar.
Those movies provided awful images ﬂiatl
mal<eusthiril<,“Wow,howdidtheydoit?”'*' .
Goals and Generals pitifully depicts thél Y‘
battleﬁeld in comparison. Not once in the
oourseofanyofthebattlesdidlgripmyl»
chairasweall didinSavingPrivateRyan.“! O

My advice is, if you want to see a? 
good movie about the Civil War, see)
Glory. Its only two hours long and is‘:-‘
an enjoyable ﬁlm for those of us who“
do not like to be bored out of our minds
by watching the pages of a textbook) 1'

unfold on the screen.
ll ,

lders at a D3 school 

n

I

With a few ticks left, senior Pi Phi Mike Weil dribbled
the ball down the ﬂoor and, with two Sigma Chis in his
face, threw up a last—second 3-point prayer that
miraculously swished through the basket. The shot was
enough to give Pi Phi the win, but the referees ruled that
the shot came after time had already expired. Thus,

athletics are a way of life. A large percentage of the 
student body participates in a varsity sport. These; 9
athletes don’t compete for national recognition or for V
million—dollar contracts. Instead, D3 athletics are all,
about playing for the love of the game. Unlike students:
at massive state schools, we don’t support our athletes

despite the incredible last—second
dramatics, Sigma Chi escaped with an
intramural basketball victory.

One of the typical complaints
submitted against small, Division—3
schools like W&L is the lack of “big”

athletics. Certainly our athletic atmosphere is a far cry
from the WVUs, the UFs, the UTs, and the UKS of the
world. We don’t have nationally televised games. We

don’t have stadiums that can hold 50,00

boys. We don’t give full athletic scholarships, and we
don’t have those wonderful athletically—induced majors
such as “General Studies” or, my personal favorite, “Arts
and Letters.” We don’t organize massive trips to support
our teams for away games, and we will probably never
advance an athlete to a major sports league.

But as any alum will tell you, W&L has a proud
athletic history. It’s,tough to imagine our school battling

such D-l juggemauts as VaTech, WVU,

late as the l950s, it was a reality. Then came an academic
scandal that involved some athletes, and our university

decided (rightfully so, I think) to sacri

status for the sake of high academic standing — a choice
which one of my professors said was more controversial

than the switch to coeducation.

Yet today our athletic tradition continues, but at
W&L, athletics are not a craze for sports fanatics ~ instead,

BY PETER DJALALIEV
WEB EDITOR

Realizing that a large number of
students from the U.S. go to study abroad
every year, The Bureau of Consular
Affairs Department of State has recently
released a Travel Safety Information for
Students, concerning the consequences,
which US. students can face, if caught
while brealdng laws about “drugs, alcohol
and disorderly behavior’ ’.

Going abroad is usually a
wonderful experience, but for some it
turns into a nightmare. According to
statistics from the Bureau, about 2,500
American citizens are arrested abroad
every year, and half are a result of
narcotic charges. US students have also
been arrested for public intoxication,
underage drinking, and driving under
the inﬂuence of alcohol. In some cases
they have suffered injuries or even
deaths from automobile accidents and
drowning, very often under the
inﬂuence of drugs and alcohol.

According to the Bureau of
Consular Services’ web site, one of the
most common thingsAmerican students

as nameless faces in a sea of 30,000 ‘A

AEsOLDTE’FRATiORDll
__..IIl!IM,F£04__,

 
 

students — we support them because we,
know them, because they are our friends, 3
our fraternity brothers, or our sorority,
sisters. Division-3 athletics beneﬁt from ‘

the atmosphere of a small school, where, Y

0 screaming frat

and UVA, but as

ﬁce our athletic

fail to recognize when going to a foreign
country is that they are subjects to all
its laws, including those about alcohol
and drug policy. No matter how small a
quantity of drugs a person is holding,
he is still violating the law. In 1994, there
was a number of arrests of U.S. citizens
for marijuana possession. Many of
these cases involved possession of an
ounce or less.

Laws on drugs can also be very
strict. A growing number of countries,
including Turkey, Malaysia and Pakistan
punish drug possession with the death
penalty. In such countries as the
Bahamas, the Dominican Republic,
Jamaica, Mexico and the Philippines,
possible penalties can include life in
prison, forced labor or even whip
lasliings. U.S. citizens might consider
this too harsh, but in some countries in
Asia andAﬁica punislnnents involving
forced labor and lasliings are common.

Drugs and alcohol abuse are only
some of the things to be concerned
about when going abroad. There are a
number of things that students are
always advised about when going in a
foreign country. Aperson should have

our close relationships to athletes make the wins and
losses that much more personal.

And naturally, at W&L we’ve managed to adapt
athletics to ﬁt the unique characteristics of life in Big .
Lex. Intramural games add sports competition to,‘
preexisting Greek rivalries, giving us all the opportunity
for positively glorious (and often violent) athletic
combat. Anyone can play intramurals, and it gives
anybody the chance to be an athletic god for an hour. lit

Some of us live for intramurals. We consider all the ’
angles, all the match-ups, all the competition. Some of
us maybe consider these things too much. . .but its these
Jacob Trotters of the world that remind us how big of a
phenomenon that intrarnurals are at W&L.

Sometimes W&L seems too easy to pigeonhole.
Half the country doesn’t even know this school exists;
the other half imagines us as spoiled frat brats or
smarter-than-average Southern kids. But look around, ‘:1
and maybe you’ll see another side. It makes me chuckle
when I even consider the possibility. . . .W&L as a.

university of j ocks.

Study Abroad students warned

his passport with him all the time 01%
he can more easily than he can I
imagine. Foreigners usually attrac -
attention in unfamiliar surroundings
and have higher risks of becomin
victims of pick pocketing, armed
robbery, and even rape or kidnapping '
Walking alone in unfamiliail
neighborhoods or during the night 1 3
hardly advisable. Displaying mone 
or jewelry usually makes foreigner);
an even more attractive target. Stoleri ,
items are almost never found an 
returned. These items can includ V
money, jewelry, and sometimes vi ‘f
documents like passports and visas»:

People going abroad should alsci ‘
be acquainted with health conditions :
in the country. Health insuranceﬁ
covering as much as possible i ‘ 1
recommended, as well as vaccines fol ;
all major diseases . This is often, but ’
not always, required before a person -
is allowed into the country.

Someoftliosethirigsarecornm ‘E
sense. However, facts show when w i
go abroad, we sometimes forget thos
little common sense things we shoul _
think about.

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 3,2003

‘Ladies:

Ladies, not all of us have personally met Miss Man—
ners, Emily Post or even the Etiquette Grrls; therefore,
'with Fancy Dress quickly approaching, we all have a few
things we need to work on so we don’t embarrass our-
selves or our dates. Follow these simple etiquette rules to
make your Fancy Dress the most enjoyable experience
possible.
V Getting dressed:

-I’m sure all you ladies noticed the “Black Tie”
notation on the lovely James Bond invitations to this
year’s Ball. This designation, ladies, does not excuse
you from proper dress. Emily Post would tell you to

‘lwear “as long and elegant a dress” (yes, dress, la-
dies, NO pants) as possible;

ARTS CY LIFE

;FoIncy Dress guide 2003:

A Follow These simple rules To ensure ihe best FD possible: 

‘ however, this is
as your DRESS
»,length and is

2003, so as long
is of decent
still as elegant

    

as possible, you should be
ﬁne.

-Stockings, however, are a

ust. Just be— cause runway

models and » 'those tarts
over in Holly- KATIE HOWELL wood don’t
wear‘ proper leg 1\[ANNERs MATTER attire under
t h e i r formalwear,

,,doesn’t mean you have to run around like a raga-
muffin.

-Flip-flops are inappropriate, ladies. I know
Reefs would be much more comfortable to dance in
than your 3-inch strappy heels, but this is not a

‘pool party.

_ —As for jewelry, tasteful and elegant are key.
Contrary to popular belief, pearls are NOT to be
worn at night. Diamonds are a much better option,

nd in return, should not be worn before dinner.
(Unless, of course, you are one of the lucky few to
have an engagement ring. In which case, wear it all
the time.)

Eaﬁngdinner

Y -Table manners are key at any formal event.
Simple rules like don’t lean on the table and use
utensils from the outside in, are necessary to fol-
low. Other important dinner table manners apply as

‘well.

-Your new diet is not an appropriate dinner table
conversation. Not only does it make you look shal-
low, but it also could potentially make the other fe-
males at the table self-conscious about their dishes

‘(of choice.

-TURN OFF your cell phone, or better, leave it at
home. No one wants to listen to you gossip while they’re
trying to enjoy their lobster bisque. 4

~ Having meaningful conversation

-We at the Phi realize that you are most certain to

meet people you don’t know well or at all during the

course of your Fancy Dress weekend. From dinner to
cocktail parties to the ball itself, new faces are certain to

1

come your way. Follow these simple rules when meeting
new people:

-When being introduced, make eye contact with the
new person. Do try to avoid staring, though. Blinking is
also key.

-If you are at a loss as to what to talk about, compli-
ments are always the way to go. Everyone likes to hear
something nice about themselves.

—Always avoid talking excessively about yourself
and keep your prejudices to yourself as well. If you
disagree with the other person’s opinion, be tactful in
your disagreement. “It seems to me...” is a much bet-
ter way to state your opinion than “Oh no you
DID’nt.” ’

-Keep your opinions about other people’s physical
appearances to yourself. You never know when you might
be insulting someone’s sorority sister, biological sister or
date.

Gentlemen:

Fancy Dress is coming upon us quickly. It is
time for Washington and Lee gentlemen to shake
the dust from their dinner clothes and refresh their
bow—tie tying talent. Many of us do not have
enough opportunity to practice our best manners,
so this brief checklist will remind you some of the
most important, If you have questions, feel free to
call the etiquette expert at X5183.

Gettingdressed.

- Wear your dinner clothes (tuxedo) only after 6:00 in
the evening. '

- Choose
a cummerbund.
the former,
button undone.
the latter, be
are turned up.

    

either a vest or
If you choose
leave the last
If you choose
sure the pleats

j - Do your best to tie your
own black bow » = tie.

-Neverwear JEB BROOKS a bowtie with a
shirt which has ETIQUI-L'lTEEXPE.R'l' its collar but-
toned down.

- DO NOT, under any circumstances (unless you are
a doctor) carry your cell phone to ANY Fancy Dress event.
Eating dinner.
— Assist the lady to your right when she sits or stands
- When you go to dinner, wait until everyone is served
to begin.
— Do not put salt on your food until you’ve tried it. To
do so is one of the worst insults to your chef.
- If there is something in your teeth, remove it in pri-
vate as soon as possible.
Having meaningful conversation.
- Introduce in this way:
* Gentleman TO lady
* Younger individual TO older person
I - Be introduced in this way:
* Stand up when you are introduced or if a lady

:(

Washington and Lee’s Shepard Program for the Interdisciplinary Study of Poverty and
Human Capability seeks applications for the position is a graduate intern position
under the supervision of the Service Learning Coordinator. This will be a one-year
position with the potential for reappointment for one or two additional years.

Responsibilities include: advising the Nabors Service League, assisting the Dean of
Freshmen with the Project Outreach pre-orientation service trips, serving as the
director of W&L’s Bonner Leaders Program, and assiting with other Shepard Program
events and duties.

Qualified applicants will have a Bachelor’s degree with considerable experience in
community service and leadership; knowledge of Washington and Lee University’s
student groups and administrative structure; proven ability to work with students in
4 organizing cooperative service activities; an appreciation for the ducational and
academic aspects of learning through service; and a knowledge of, or a willingness
to learn, computers and computer programs, including Microsoft Access and Microsoft
FrontPage. All interested candidates should submit a cover letter and resume. All
’* materials should be sent to:

Harlan Beckley, Director
Sheperd Poverty Program

PAGE 5

p..

 

PoLrTE IS RIGHT; EVERYDAY ETIQUETTE FOR EVERYDAY COLLEGE STUDENTS: (Above) Which one of these two charming’

gentlemen do you think tied his own bowtie?

OH, NO YOU DID’NT. (Below) This young lady gapes in horror at an egregious etiquette error.

comes or leaves your-table.

* Shake a hand by squeezing with light and even
pressure. When shaking the hand of a lady or a dignitary
(READ: George Clinton), wait for his or her hand to be
extended.

— Begin a conversation in neutral and with a topic that
is not too controversial (READ: don’t talk about sweat-
shops) I

- Ask questions. Do not ask questions that are too
personal of someone you don’t know well.

— A gentleman does not:

* Brag

* Whine

* Threaten

* Speak without thinking

— End a conversation without offending your part-
ner. Invite them to the bar while you get another (non-
alcoholic) drink or express your desire to speak again
soon. -

- Apologize only when it is truly sincere.

The most important rule.

- The single most important job you have at
Fancy Dress (or any other day of the year) is to
make every effort to ensure that your date has a
marvelous time.

—It is also important to remember that attractiveness
increases as the night goes on.

I’H( )'IT_)S(I()Lll'IFS\' Kmr. H0\\Fll.

 

“Deﬁnitely not Asher Simcoe.”
—Mary Holloway ‘O6

 

“Trey Packard.”
-Drew Heath ‘O5

  

“Baner.”
—Licoln Rose ‘03

 

4 I

D

,. Tancy (Dress

:9...

’(/Visﬁing you an enj0ya6l2ai

 Ca[[ us for your dinner neecfs

    
   

    
    
 

    

APARTMENTS [Ill IIIIIEII:
close to Lexington. Iieautiiul condition.
norolles taoing river. one large l$425Imo.l
two small Is325Imo.l. law or undergrad,
tor nextvear. 540-311-2980.
nowIiliw@meIoenot

 

 

 

” - Washington and Lee University

[A Lexl ngton ’ VA 24450 “Thomas Worthy, shaken not stirred.” “Dwight Bitz.”

‘ ' —Ann Idsal ‘O5 —Isca King
‘I 640 North Lee Highway Tel 540-464-5500

. ' ‘£;amS1.ﬂ3O-‘52.&Q0foryo4w5tudei1!EGmu:' ' ' ' I

. Lexington, VA24450 Fax 540-463-5049 m in“ 3 ham, - 9 53* C_‘l''fe---°r' “Tl: °b°”l ‘J-

‘_  0 e..i‘s“gt‘mr..:.;;;sssgsr..ea’t"§igg.rt.  I “  em“ 9”YC@W “-5 U °'" 5°
1‘ ‘ N111 . i‘wi(irojs'r'ig:  o:a:.~a€Lakr§\~.-. NI?    r:3l?§~3i. Just. ~:.w,r»zm~" 

2 Fr.ms*§naiicirt§.; srirdtrrzs are filing rpiiclrly, rat with the pwxgrmmx that m,a‘§:’t

t 
.      LOOK voun BEST

_ : " . . ” iitirrr 3"Iim'{er! .'i€r;-rm? four !.'..‘r;Ii’.‘e;5§w- 2'‘=''riirrri'ei:i‘.¥.*$r.ii*.»_ja:'.

.   “ ’ c . FOR FANCY DRESS‘
  (It It? $51’ 838-323-3238 I wWw‘mm9a5mndmi5er't°mi Come by and see Skip, Marla, Connie and Wilszn. A

~lj

SKIP THOMPSON’S
BARBER SHOP

22 S. Main Street 9 Lexington, VA
Open Mon., Tues., Thurs., & Fri. 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
Sat. 8 a.m. - noon; Closed Wed. & Sun.

540-463-5954

 

    

ER1N]LuL's
Sports EDITOR
FrirAr;jLr1LsE@\>iui.EDU

RlN<'}~'E‘l‘§?iil3i~il .

MONDAY, MARCH 3, 2003

BY ERINJULIUS
SPORTS EDITOR

Boxing has returned to W&L’s
campus for the first time since be-
fore WWII. Forest Fletcher, the head
of W&L’s athletic department in the
old days, had boxing removed from
campus, because he felt that any col-
lege sport which had its objective
as the incapacitation of one’s oppo-
nent had no place in intercollegiate
athletics.

In the fall of 2001, Brian
Steams(’02), Joe Morrison(’03), and
Ian Barnbrick(’03) revived the boxing
program with $100 from the EC and a
grand total of six students participat-
ing throughout the fall of 2001 and
winter of 2002.

Drew Heath took over the pro-
gram this winter and it now has 48

people on the email list, 30 who have

participated and about two dozen
regulars. Boxing is considered a “rec-
reation group” by the University,
therefore the group does not travel
to other schools for competitions.

The group meets every Monday
through Thursday from 7—8:30 and
attracts a wide range of participants—-
people from the freshman class to law
school, male and female. This year’s
practices started the week before
Thanksgiving break.

“Boxing is a lot of fun, and it is
deﬁnitely not just for guys. There
are a couple girls who practice a lot,
and we hold our own,” said freshman
Debra Kubras, who attends the box-
ing work—outs every Monday
through Thursday.

“The atmosphere is very relaxed,
everyone works hard but the atti-
tudes stay light. People come and go
as they can, and we average about
10-12 people a night,” said Heath,
“Every other week or so Security Of-
ficer (Daniel) Rexrode joins us for a
night devoted to learning the more
advanced techniques to boxing. Mr.
Rexrode was a boxer in the Air Force
and went 20-0, to say he is qualified
and knowledgeable is quite an under-
statement, theman is sick.”

Though it may not be an ofﬁcial
club sport, the boxers are dedicated
to their sport. “We teach everyone

Boxing re urns o W&L

the basics, and later the advanced
techniques, of real boxing. This isn’t
cardio boxing sissy crap. Having
come out to several workouts one will
have learned both how to defend one-
self and how to dish out some pun-
ishment. The workouts are 90min of
extremely intense aerobics. We use a
station system that includes speed
bags, heavy bags, jump ropes,
shadow boxing, body pad work, and
focus mitts,” said Heath.

Many of those who participate
in the boxing work—outs use it as train-
ing for other sports.

Kubras will be joining the track
team this spring and says boxing,
“has helped me retain cardiovascular
ﬁtness by jumping rope.”

Junior Mattew Laﬂtas also uses
boxing to train for another sport, “I
play rugby and it keeps me in shape,
gets me in shape on my off days away
from rugby.

Freshman Emilee Hopkins, a
member of the Equestrian team said,
“I participate in the boxing practices
because they are a different way to
get a workout. Sometimes doing the
ellipticals and lifting weights all the
time gets boring, and boxing is a fun
substitute. . .

I’m not sure boxing helped me
condition that much for the sport, but
it was a good way to get a full body
workout and this certainly made me
feel better when riding. Building
muscle and endurance is always a
positive.”

The group hopes to one day be
granted ofﬁcial status by the Univer-
sity, “I’d really like to see the boxing
“organization” become a “club” in
which we travel to other schools and
compete. That way we could get
more money and have top of the line
equipment, guess instructors, etc,”
said sophomore Stephen Welker.

The group received $500 from
the EC this winter in order to purchase
new equipment. “The crap we
dusted off and oiled up last year was
installed sometime in the 20s and 30s,
pretty neat,” said Heath.

As Heath is the leader of the
group and only a sophomore, they
hope to be here on campus “for years
to come,” he said.

Office of National Drug Control Policy

But it wasn't a bar for long. The local Police Department shut down Swifty’s
Lounge For illegal drug activity. instead of condemning the property, they
contacted their local community coalition. The coalition brought in contractors
who donated their time to renovate the_ building. And the doctor got his hospital
to volunteer services for families that need drug counseling.

it's funny what happens when we all work together. Communities become a better
place for everyone, especially our children. Community coalitions bring
other community groups together. And getting involved is easy. just contact
www.helpyourcommunity.org or 1-877-KIDS-313. They'll tell you how your group
can help. You'll be surprised how much you can accomplish.

‘log get More W]-[EN gou get t03el',ﬂe[‘_

PORTS 3

PAGE 6

BIG WIN

LAX WINS. Washington and Lee’s men’s lacrosse team, ranked sixth ,
broke a 4-4 tie with two goals in the ﬁnal 7:41 of their game against
\Washington College on Sunday afternoon. Matt Fink (’04),]ack Murray

(’04),_lack r\Iurrary (’05), Mike McNamara (’04) and Sam Lane (’06) all 7
scored. The Generals’ next match will be Saturday at home against

Gettysburg College.

B Aiutrr D.-ms iRrrzg—lum P/yr

omen swimmers win ODACS

BY ALLISON PERRY
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee
women’s swim team ended its sea-
son last week while capturing the
ODAC championship. The men’s
team also finished its year with a
second place finish at the Southern
States Championships.

The women competed at a
three-day long event at Radford
University. This is the team’s tenth
consecutive ODAC championship.
They finished the season with a 9-4
overall record and a 3-1 ODAC
record.

On the first day of competition,
the Generals earned a 14 point lead
over Randolph-Macon. Randolph
Macon is the only ODAC team to
have beaten the Generals this year.
Senior captains Blair Huffman and

Wea her

BY JOHN HYLAND
SPORTS WRITER

Washington and Lee has endured
some harsh weather this winter that
has affected all of us to some degree.
Our spring sports teams have been
especially inconvenienced, particularly
the baseball team, which has already
postponed four games, three against
Muhlenberg that were scheduled for
February 22 and 23 and a third last
Wednesday against Southern Virginia.

A double header against Emory
and Henry was moved from this past
Saturday to Sunday in the hopes that
the extra day of decent weather would
make ﬁeld conditions suitable for play-
ing.

The inclement weather and
snow-covered, drenched ﬁelds have
not only affected games but also prac-

Kelli Austin led W&L with a 2”“
place finish in the 200 yard IM and
a 3'“ place finish inithe 500 yard
freestyle, respectively.

On day two of the meet, fresh-
man Beth Sauer finished 15‘ in the
100 yard breast stroke with a time
of 1: 13.63. Austin had a personal-
best in the 200 yard freestyle at
1259.49. The Generals increased
their lead to 130 points- over
Randolph Macon.

W&L then cruise'd to a 178
point lead on the final day of com-
petition to post a score of 619 and
win the meet. Huffman led the Gen-
erals by winning the 200 yard but-
terﬂy in 2:15.22 and capturing the
team’s second individual title.

Junior Jackie Green placed
fourth in both the 100 yard ﬂy and
the 200 yard ﬂy, ﬁnishing in 1:04.91
and 227.34, respectively.

affec s baseballs

tices as the team has been forced to
use the turf or indoor facilities. Sopho-
more outﬁelder Warren Hunter con-
tends, “It’s been difﬁcult to stay fo-
cused in the pavilion and batting
cages everyday and it is getting mo-
notonous.”

Luckily for the Generals, the ma-
jority of their opponents have been
subject to the same playing condi-
tions. .

The Generals have a tremendous
amount of experience, particularly on
the mound.

Their three main starters are all
juniors and include 1eft—hander and
All-ODAC performer Peter Dean and
right-handers Dan Kagey and Mike
Wert. All three were in the regular ro-
tation last season. In the field, the
Generals are also experienced and are
led by three seniors and tri—captains,

This bracatot was a air: Arnbnr Apodaca

wrmn an underage drunk driver took hm lilo.

Vang!-x

.‘?..___.-...,....

_r-culvnd nom ma canlor wrmm she hotpucl men. Wm.
drug and alcohol problems. She was wonvhng n

Frlondu Don't Lo: rrlonda Drlvo Drunk.

 

“The strength of our team is
that we are a team,” Green said. “It
was our depth. Our competition

this year was Randolph Macon, and

they don’t have depth.”

N 0 one from the meet qualified
for nationals this year. The Gener-
als are also losing 5 seniors.

“They were a great asset to the
team,” Green said.

The men’s swim team also com-
peted in a three-day long competi-
tion last week in the Southern States
Championships at Radford Univer-
sity. The Generals finished second
of five teams and behind the Col-
lege of Charleston with 585 .5
points. W&L competed against
several Division I teams.

Junior Eric Ritter finished first
in the 100 yard backstroke in 51.42
and first in the 200 yard back with a
time of 1:53.63. Sophomore Chris

including shortstop Michael Hanson,
centerfielder Bobby Littlehale and first
baseman Brian Gladsyz. Hanson is a
three-time All-ODAC selection, hit .356
last season and is W&L’s career leader
in runs scored. Littlehale hit .294 a
season ago, while leading the team in
RBIs. Gladsyz is coming off a season
in which he batted a whopping .360.
A fourth returning starter is jun-
ior catcher Brian Mulhern. In addition,
Hanson, Gladsyz and Mulhem are all
capable of relief pitching. In all, seven
of the nine positions will be ﬁelded
by returning starters, although some
starters will be at different positions
and many players will be moving po-
sitions as the Generals are extremely
versatile. Mulhem will see time in right
ﬁeld, Littlehale at catcher and Kagey
in left ﬁeld. Junior Austin Allain will
play both second and third base.

Teach carefully.

Call 8'77-"ACT--VVISE or VlSl "

1

Colby touched first in the 200 ﬂy.
Freshman Clark Barrineau placed 15‘ 7‘
in the 1650 freestyle.

All-Southern States awards
were given to Barrineau, Colby,
Ritter, seniors Zach Fake and
Patrick Frankfort, and junior
Jonathan James.

The Generals ended their sea-
son with a 5-6 overall record. They
also lose three seniors this year. ‘A

Ritter is the only team member
who will be going on to the NCAA
Division III Championships. He
was named All-American in the 100
backstroke at the championships
last year.

“I’m hoping this year to get All-
American again and maybe improve
my finishing place,” Ritter said. ,1

The NCAA Division III Cham-
pionships will take place March 20“‘
through March 22"“.

season’

The teamhas a number ofreturning?

-letter winners and freshman that are all

capable of contributing in some capacity.

The experience and versatility
helped the Generals get the season
off to a good start during their Febru-
ary Break trip to Atlanta, ﬁnishing 2-
1, despite the severe weather at home.
The team picked up two wins against
Oglethorpe 13- land 3-2, their lone ‘pi.
loss came in a 9-3 decision against
Emory.

Hunter added, “We were really
excited about coming back after that
trip and were looking forward to tak- 1
ing the momentum we had gained into
the Muhlenberg games.”

As we approach the spring, hope-I
fully the Generals will no longer have‘
to contend with Mother Nature and
focus on their primary goal of win-
ning an ODAC championship.

 

