-it

   

BY KATIE HOWELL
EDITOR IN CHIEF

“I haven’t got a preference yet,”
President Thomas Burish said Thurs-
day morning of the recently proposed
options for reforming Washington and
Lee’s imdergiaduate academic calendar.

The President’s Advisory Commit-
tee chaired by University Provost Laurent
Boetsch presented a summary of months
of‘ ‘the discussions related to course-load
and calendar issues” on Monday to
Burish and the W&L community.

“The student reaction—I was
surprised by the severity. I was sur-
prised by the conclusion of many of
the students who assumed a decision
had already been made to have a 14/
14 calendar system,” Burish said.

The comrnittee’s report, in fact,
lays out three different academic calen-
dar models. The report then debates the
options with regard to six parameters
Burish outlined for the committee in the
challenge he gave to the it last fall.

The first option calls for the cur-
rent calendar to remain in place with a
six-course teaching load for all fac-
ulty members and a requirement of 40
courses to graduate.

The second option requests a
two-semester calendar with a six-
course teaching load for all faculty
members and a 32- (or 36-) course
graduation requirement.

The last option also calls for a
two—semester calendar, but requests
a ﬁve-course teaching load for all fac-
ulty and 32- (or 36-) courses per stu-
dent for graduation.

Boetsch described the second
option as the “most feasible” during
a student-adrninistration forum held
Wednesday night iI.l.L€I1f¢$.t_C€nt€f-

After receiving the recommenda-
tions and summary from the
President’s Advisory Committee,
Burish conducted a faculty meeting
on Tuesday aﬁemoon to discuss the

situation with all the academic depart-
ments. He then held the student fo-
rum Wednesday night. He plans to
host two more such student forums
on March 31 andApril 3 in Lee Chapel.

He stated that neither the adrnin-
istration nor the faculty have come to
a conclusion about how to alter the
current calendar, course-load and ﬁs-
cal quandary.

“The power of our job is to gener-
ate alternatives, if we can,” Burish said.

The reasons why:

Before his death in the summer

A of 200 1 , late University President John

Elrod decided to reduce faculty teach-
ing loads from seven to six courses
per year.

During the student forum, Burish
said, “Several years ago, the school
felt it could not continue attracting
the best faculty with our current
teaching loads. In an attempt to be
more competitive, the administration
changed the course load from seven
to six.”

In addition to this decree, the
administration decided to make this
change over the course of three years
as to reduce the amount of visible
strain seen on individual departments,
classes and class sizes.

“Unfortimately, there’s no finite
mechanism to implement this,” Burish
said. “One-seventh of the classes will
be gone—that’s over 100. We have
no good plan to make this wor .”

Currently, the teaching load re-
ductions are being phased in over
three years. Burish said faculty will
alternate years teaching seven and
then six courses each year. In addi-

SEE INSERT FOH SPECAL APRIL FOOLS EDITION

To SPRING OR NOT To SPRING. (left) President Thomas Burish addresses students and fa

tion, the University allocated $200,000
to hire temporary adjunct faculty over
the next three years to help counter-
act the effects of a large-scale course
reduction.

“Unfortunately, this is a short-
term solution,” Burish said.

Burish said
that in order to
maintain the
same number of
classes currently
offered and to

the College;

I KNOW STUDENTS LOVE
SPRING TERM, BUT JUST TO
SAY WE WANT A 12-12-6

Law School, Larry Peppers of the Will-
iams School and Thomas Williams of
professors Brian
Murchison of the Law School, Michael
Evans of the mathematics department,
Lad Sessions of the philosophy depart-
ment. Suzanne Keen of the English de-
partment, Michael
Pleva of the cheni-
istry department,
Barbara Browrr of
the library, Cecile
West-Settle of the

avoid a drastic CALENDAR WITH NO romance lan-
increase in CHANGES \yoN’T WORK....IT guages dePa‘""'
course sizes, the , merit, Harlan
Universitywould WON T BE IDENTICALR BUT Beckley of the
need to hire 25 IN MANY WAYS \X/ILL BE Sheperd Program

new faculty at a
cost of $2.5 mil-
lion per year for
salaries and start-
up packages.
The University would also be forced
to pay $3 million to move the faculty
here and construct a new building to
house ofﬁces for all these new people.

“We don’t have that money,”
Burish said. “I don’t know the an-
swer.”

He said the school is currently in
a “delicate ﬁnancial situation.” The
endowment is down seven percent,
the school has no excess money, and
the school is increasing tuition “ag-
gressively” to counteract these ﬁnan-
cial problems.

“W&L won’t be W&L if we have
the second-best faculty,” Burish said.
“Over time, it’s going to be more diffi-
cult to attract the best faculty if we
don’t ﬁx some things.”

Burish’s challenge:

“I found several unsolved prob-
lems waiting for the new presidential
ofﬁce,” Burish said in his speech last
Wednesday.

In early fall 2002, he challenged the
President’s Advisory Committee (com-
prised of Deans David Partlett of the

i_,..r~.;vs briefs to

    

-           -
Mock Con announces Kick-off bands

North Mississippi Allstars and The Lost Trailers
will be the two bands to play at Washington and Lee’s
Mock Convention Spring Kick-Off May 10, Noah
Rhodes announced at the Mock Con Steering Com-

BETTER.
UNIV. PRES. THOMAS BURISH

and religion de-
partment, Arthur
Goldsmith of the
economics de-
partment and
Robert Strong of the politics depart-
ment; and associate deans David Millon
of the Law School, Elizabeth Oliver of
the Williams School and Jeanine
Stewart of the College) to “study these
issues [the University’s current finan-
cial status with regard to ensuring the
University’s continued progress] and
to propose ways that the University
might effectively deal with them.”
Burish framed the charge by pro-
viding six guidelines for the commit-
tee to use in their discussions. They
are: 1. The teaching load will be no
more that 6 courses per year, 2. We
should seek to enhance collaboration
among the College, Williams School
and Law School, 3. We should seek
to strengthen interdisciplinary and
international education, 4. The current
student/faculty ratio will be main-
tained (assume up to ﬁve permanent
faculty hires), 5. Resource reallocation
is probable, but there will be no sig-
niﬁcant infusion of new resources for
the addition of faculty, and 6. Keep
the calendar structured by making
sure students take two courses per

mittee meeting last night. According to The Lost Trail-
ers Web site, www.thelosttrailers.com, the band is “an
American rock band based in the Southeast.” Lucinda
Williams said of North Mississippi Allstars, “The
North Mississippi Allstars have taken the best of Delta
blues and Southern rock and blended them to create
their own sound that is honest, raw, sensual, very
powerful stuff. They are important because they are

bridging a gap by bringing blues to a whole new crowd

while still staying true to the primitive sounds of the
Delta. You could call it swamp rock. I love them!” Visit
North Mississippi Allstars at their Web site
www.nma11stars.com.

JEB BROOKS / The Ring-Inn: Phi

culty  Wednesday/s
student forum After a short presentation by Burish and Provost Laurent Boetsch, students took the opportunity

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

«   NG-TUM

The ilnnlnnt none of Washington nnn’ Len Uninnniih since 7897 (D On/inn nl: phzln//n.enln

 

spring term.

Under this charge the Committee
proposedthe three options listed inthe
ﬁrst section above. Under each option,
however, the committee found viola-
tions of Burish’s guidelines. These vio-
lations are all listed and thoroughly de-
scribed in the summary posted online
at hgp://registrar.wlu.edu/calendars/
AdvisorvCommRecs2003 .htm.
Boetsch, however, did comment that the
committee found the second option,
calling for two-semesters, a six-course
teaching load, and 32- to 36-course
graduation requirement for students the
most feasable, voting 12-0-2 (with two
absences) in favor of a two semester
calendar.

The history:

While many think the recent de-
velopments regarding the University
calendar, teaching loads and curricu-
lum reform have been sprung on the
W&L community at the last rriinute,
the calendar has been in question
over the past few years. During the
2000-2001 school year, a faculty com-
mittee conducted a study of two cal-
endar models: one with two 14-week
semesters similar to the current Law
School calendar and the other was the
current 12-12-6 calendar. This cornmit-
tee ﬁnished its work in February 2001,
and the faculty subsequently debated
whether to keep the current 12-12-6
calendar or to switch to a 14- l 4-week
system. The faculty vote was in favor
of the current situation 127 to 64 (66.5
percent to 33.5 percent) votes. The
faculty, however, were concerned
about the quality of a six-week term.
They acted upon these concerns by
forming a Spring Term Renewal Com-
mittee (STRC) which “was assigned
the task of providing the administra-
tion with a set of recommendations to
strengthen the Spring Term by the end
of the 2001-2002 academic year,” ac-
cording to the STRC report. After a
year of debate and consideration, the

Grasso named first-ever VP Administration

Joseph E. Grasso has been named to Washing-
ton and Lee University’s newly-created position
ofVice President for Administration, effective July

1.

Grasso joins W&L from the University of Virginia,
where he serves as associate dean of planning and opera-
tions in the College and Graduate School of Arts & Sci-

€I'lC€S.

W&L President Thomas Burish praised Grasso’s ap-
pointment and the selection process leading up to it.
“The Search Committee put a tremendous amount of time

   

PE

 

VOLUME CV, No.XXV  

MONDAY, MARCH 31, 2003

STRC presented its report in May
2002.

This report suggested the admin-
istration establish a standing commit-
tee to examine all proposed courses
for Spring Term, require that Spring
Term courses be unique to Spring
Term, keep Spring Term class sizes
small and Seminar-style, encourage
off-campus, unique and interdiscipli-
nary courses and begin work on a
number of programs including Fresh-
men Seminars, new faculty workshops
and summer grants. The STRC pre-
sented its findings to then acting-
President Boetsch, who declined to
react to them since Burish was assum-
ing presidency in July 2002. Burish
then established the new committee
in September, and they have debat-
ing since then.

Both the 2000-2001 report and
STRC reports are posted on the Uni-
versity registrar’s Web site.

Historically, Spring Term has
only been in existence at W&L since
1970. Prior to 1970 the students had
two 15-week semesters, took ﬁve
courses each term and went to class
on Saturdays. Administrators pointed
out during the student forum that
many liberal arts colleges employed
alternative calendar systems during
the 1970s and that all except W&L
and Bates College in Maine have re-
tained these sirnilar shorter terms. The
administrators said, however, that
Bates’s ﬁve-week term and W&L’s six-
week term are not the same as current
other school’s voluntary “January” or
“May” terms.

What will happen?

Over the past week students, fac-
ulty, administrators, alumni and prospec-
tive students have all voiced their con-
cerns and comments on the issues at
hand Signs around campus, studentmass
emails and numerous classroom discus-
sions have been a common sight at W&L
over the past week. Students and many

them.”

ante“?

mt, ) UJ.L'.\'l'lL\'l'l().\' Br} EB BROOKS / The Rzn;-him Phi

to question the administrators about the calendar issues and the future of Spring Terrrr  A French class takes
advantage of warm weather to work outside. \Will this still be a common sight if the current calendar is changed?

faculty members have declared their un-
dying affection for Spring Term. Burish
responded, however, “I know students
love Spring Term, but just to say we want
a 12- 12-6 calendar with no changes won’t
work because there won’t be enough
classes for all the students to take.”

Alumni and students alike have
emailed and met with Burish throughout
the week to present their concerns and
suggestions for ways to improve the cal-
endar. “We need to identify the most
important elements in the whole aca-
demic calendar—spring term and other
tenns—and then help us think of cre-
ative ways we can package those ele-
ments to retain those essential elements,”
Burish said. “The faculty are trying to
ﬁnd away to do it, and I’m trying to ﬁnd
a way to do it. Ithink that we can do it. It
won’t be identical, but in many ways will
be better—we’ll have a better and more
competitive course-load for faculty.”

Burish also added, “We have to
keep in mind this report has only been
out a couple of days. It is meant to
generate interest and generate ideas.”

Burish is optimistic about the
ideas and thoughts that will be gained
from the student forums, faculty meet-
ings and one-on-one meetings with
individuals of both groups.

He said, “I’m delighted in the past
few days people have changed their
minds about the issues. I called a stu-
dent last night for example who had writ-
ten a pretty stinging email not to me-
but it had been sent to me-—I called to let
him know some of his information was
inaccurate, and he said, ‘President Burish
I was at the meeting [student forum] to-
night, and I feel completely different, and
I’ll work with you on alternatives. I still
may not like the outcome. ’”

Burish said students and faculty
alike have approached him with ideas
and suggestions.

“There ’s no set formula to ﬁx this,”
Burish said. “We’re just going to have
to get a lot of different perspectives
before anything can be decided.”

and effort into the Search and selection process, main-
tained strict conﬁdentiality, and helped bring the pro-
cess to a most successful conclusion. I am grateful to

The Search Committee was chaired by Steven G.

McAllister, W&L’s vice president for ﬁnance and Univer-

sity treasurer. It included William Hartog, dean of admis-
sions and financial aid; David Partlett, dean of W&L’s
School of Law; Larry Peppers, dean of the Williams School

of Commerce, Economics, and Politics; Mike Walsh, ex-

Trustees.

ecutive athletic director; Leanne Shank, W&L’s general
counsel; and Burt Staniar, a member of W&L’s Board of

 

   

BRE'1TT.KlR\X/AN _ , 
OPINIONSEDHOR 3 337.. i P‘ "
FMAH:wRWB@MU£DU 5 T.  ,
MONDAY, MARCH 31, 2003>   ‘

 

._/‘  ~ '3.-

I



News comes before Fools

This is the second year in a row that The
Ring-tum Phi has been unable to print an en-
tire issue dedicated to April Fool’s fun. Both
times, President Burish has been the reason.
The April Fool’s edition of 2002 was partially
nixed because of the announcement of Tho-
mas Burish’s ascension to the top spot at our
fine school. Today, we print only an insert. W&L
may be a bubble from reality, but news has
trumped April Fools yet again.

All majors have something to offer

How many times has a C-School student
laughed at someone studying the humanities?
How many times have economics maj ors called
future geologists “hippies?” How many times
have philosophy majors scoffed at the voca-
tional training offered in the C-School? Far too
often, if you ask us. To judge a student based
solely on what he chooses to explore while a
wee undergraduate is short-sighted. The broad
base of classes students take in the form of
general education courses and (ahem) Spring
Term courses ensures that every student has a
good mix of courses.

On the rare occasion that an employer hires
someone these days, he is looking for a char-
acter who has this broad experience. The goal
of a liberal arts education is to teach one how
to think, not to impart to students a speciﬁc set
of skills.

As such, those who study something a little
more “Newcomb,” as well as those in the C-
School have options available. Recent gradu-
ates with degrees from building on the Colon-
nade have found themselves in professions
ranging from Pastors to Professors and Com-
modities Traders to Counselors.

Remember, one’s undergraduate degree
has little bearing on what one does with the
rest of one ’s life. Math majors are not all dorks,
science majors are not all mad, sociology ma-
jors are not all worthless and politics majors
are not all conservatives. Do not fall victim to
labeling a ﬁiend (or enemy) by some ill-irrforrned
conception of what he is studying.

The diversity of disciplines available at
Washington and Lee should encourage students
to experiment with new ﬁelds of study, not pro-
vide fodder for sophomoric teasing.

THE RiNG—TI.lM PHI

 

PINIONS

 

PAGE 2

Burish needs to work to save Spring Term

“I give you my word, a decision has not already been
made,” said President Burish during a recent interview. He
was obviously speaking about Spring Term.

So what does one make of this? I have to believe the
president when he says this. This University is founded
on a tradition of honor and honesty, so if I cannot trust
the University President at his word, then things are in a
horrible state.

Burish also said, “What surprised me is that students
thought a decision on the issue had already been made.”
The fact is that when the President’s Advisory Committee
gave their report on a range of issues, including the calen-
dar, Burish stated he truly expected one of the options
that was to be presented to him to include the current
calendar system.

What students do need to understand is that Burish
came to Washington and Lee, the past president, the late
John Elrod, already having given the faculty the promise
to reduce their teaching load from seven to six courses.
Elrod had also already put many construction plans, such
as the renovation of Reid Hall and the Commons, into the
works.

The University borrowed money for these projects,
and they had to be paid for. Thus comes the Campaign for
the Rising Generation. This campaign’s goal is to raise
$225 million to pay for these and other things. In his short
time here, Burish has already met $205 million of this goal.

“Why can’t the University use part of this money
to pay for new faculty and buildings that would be
needed to keep the current calendar and reduce the
current faculty’s course load?”

He explained that while much of this
money is in a sense, “already spent,” the
fact remains that when someone pledges
money to the school it is often not seen
for ﬁve years. If a pledge is more than $1 million, that
individual has ten years to pay it. Moreover, some pledges
are in the form of trusts, and the University does not see
this money until that individual has died.

Thus, there is actually no current disposable income
to pay for such a high number of new faculty members
(estimated around twenty-ﬁve people).

    

KEWL bakes up lies ,

?????????????? 
NICK RAMSEY ‘O3

‘ILE '
GoNE? Students wait for the Porta—]ohns at the 1993 Foxﬁeld
Races The end of SpiingTei:m couldmean the end of this tradition

I also asked Burish how the proposed two-term cal-
endar would affect the variety of a student’s education
since it reduces the number of courses one takes in four
years at W&L from forty to thirty-two.

He said he feels the general education requirements
do a good job of making sure students
experience this type of variety already, and
that tradition would be continued if we
go to a different calendar.

“Don’t you think it would beneﬁt you to experience
Spring Tenn before calling it into question like this?” His
answer was simple. “I’ve not experienced Spring Term,
but I know students love it. I do want to keep it if I can.”

So what is one to make of all this? Clearly there are
those among the student body who feel that Burish is on
a crusade to get rid of our beloved six weeks. They are

 

incorrect. But, this is not to say that the students should
remain passive. There are too many things about Spring
Tenn that provide students classes and opportunities that
are unavailable at any other school.

To quote W&L alumnus, past EC President, and cur-
rent NYU law student Jeff Cook, “All the people I know
who got their start in politics from Washington Term think
doing away with Spring Term is a horrible idea.”

Other problems that could arise from the abolition of
Spring Term include internships, the Politics Department’s
term on Parliamentary Politics in London, and the multiple
seminar and specialized courses we have all come to love.
Moreover, the Theater Department would be greatly hin-
dered in its ability to do a musical. The school’s orchestra
would have to ﬁt all of its own engagements into two
terms, leaving very little time for them to devote to a Spring
Tenn musical.

Moreover, “The Princeton Review” recently ranked
our students as some of the hardest studiers in the nation.
I think every student would agree to this since many of
our friends at other schools cannot identify with the level
of work that it takes to get a sheepskin from this place. I,
personally, have pulled at least ten all—nighters this term.
Two of them were back to back, thus keeping me up for
sixty-three hours straight.

Thus, my argument from these facts is that we, as
a student body, earn the relaxation and special oppor-
tunities provided to us from Spring Term. This has
always been a school that has been different. The stu-
dent body has delighted in these differences. I think
that the fact that an overwhelming majority of stu-
dents prefer to keep a calendar that keeps us in school
longer each year than the new proposed calendar
speaks volumes.

Funding issues and teaching loads aside, the real
challenge I charge President Burish and the administra-
tion with is, MAKE THIS WORK The clear advantages
from our calendar far outweigh any disadvantages. While
the word “change” is often frowned upon here for ﬁivo-
lous reasons, this is one time that we as a student body
need to remain united and make our voices heard. This
time we are right.

   

te of the Week

“Screw theAmericans!”

~Canadian Senator Laurier L. LaPierre,
in Senate debate on March 25

Founder J. Sam Slicer, 1898L
Editor in chief Katie J. Howell
Opinions Editor BrettT.Kirwan
Arts & Life Editor Catherine C. Guy
Photo Editor Jeb Brooks
Sports Editor Erin Julius
Asst. News Editor CaleyAnderson
Photographers CodyGabbard
Copy Editor Donny Banks
Business Manager
Circulation Director
Advertising Assistant

Thomas Worthy
Henry Grimball
McQueen Calvert

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor in chief, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily re-
ﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address.‘ 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http.‘//phi.wIu.edu

Last Wednesday, Knowledge Em-
powering Womyn Leaders (KEWL) and
the Minority Student Association (MSA)
held an “Equity Bake Sale” to bring the
attention of W&L students to that
scourge of our time, the gender wage gap.
(One wonders why the Minority Student
Association would spon-
sor an event for women, a
majority population.)
Congratulations to the la-
dies for donating all the
proceeds to CancerCare; ﬁe on them for
perpetuating the thoroughly disproven
myth that the gender wage gap is due to
discrimination.

There is indeed a gender wage gap.
The statistics KEWL paraded about are
true. On average, women do earn less than
men. However, this is not due to any dis-
crimination. It is, instead, due to genuine
inequities in educational attainment, job ex-
perience, age or occupation. For example,
the Bureau of Labor Statistics numbers
ﬂaunted by KEWL, according to the Inde-
pendent Women’s Forum, compare only the
“median wages of all men and all women in
the work force, without regard to age, edu-
cation, occupation, experience or working
hours.” Even the National Council on Pay
Equity, set up by labor unions and femi-
nist groups to agitate in favor of higher
wages for women, agrees that all of these
variables are important factors that “are
valid explanations for different pay rates.”
Yet they ignore the true explanation so that

  
 

RIGHT or THE AISLE

they can score political points by complain-
ing about nonexistent discrimination.

In fact, “equal pay for equal wor ” has
been the law of the land since the 1963
Equal Pay Act was passed. Discrimination
in paying one’s laborers based on sex
would land an employer in court and give
the woman plaintiff a
settlement so she would
never have to work again.

Moreover, if employ.-
ers were indeed justiﬁed
with paying their female employees only
three-quarters of what they pay their male
employees for the same work, all male em-
ployees would be ﬁred. Capitalists dis-
criminate in favor of proﬁt and if the gen-
der wage gap were truly based on discrimi-
nation, men would be sacked in favor of
their 28 percent cheaper female counter-
parts.

According to the National Longitudi-
nal Survey of Youth, also conducted by
the Bureau of Labor Statistics, reveal that
when childless 27-33 year old men and
women are compared, taking into account
their education, occupation and experi-
ence, women earn nearly 98 percent the
wages of men. No gap there.

Another explanation for the wage gap
is that many women voluntarily choose to
work in lower paying jobs, such as clerical
work, sales or education. There is no dis-
criminatory boss that makes these jobs
lower paying or forces women to choose
them. Usually, the additional ﬂexibility

these types of jobs offer more than com-
pensates women for lower wages.

In 1970, only four percent of MBA’s
were awarded to women. In 1996, 37 per-
cent of these advanced degrees went to
women. As women’s educational achieve-
ments and training advance (women are
now the majority on undergraduate cam-
puses) we’ll keep seeing more and more
women in top executive positions where
they’re earning as much or more than their
male counterparts. In fact, in 1973, women
sat on the boards of only 11 percent of
major corporations; in 1998, that percent-
age had risen to 72.

So, it turns out that, if one examines
truly equal work, women earn just as much
as men. There is no sexual discrimination

 

_] EB BROOKS / The Rirrgtzrm Phi
CHOCOIATE CHIP FALSEHOODS. KEWL promoted the sham that the genderwage gap is discrirninatory.

on pay day. As much as it may displease
the feminists among us, many mothers
choose more ﬂexible jobs with lower sala-
ries so that they may raise their children.
Since 4 out of 5 women will bear a child
sometime in their lifetimes, this results in
women working lower paying part-time and
seasonal jobs in every sector of the
economy.

If KEWL truly wants to help women,
they need to drop the political posturing
and herald the great strides that women
have made in the workplace in recent de-
cades. Women do receive equal pay for
equal work. Stop claiming victim status.

But do keep baking cookies. The
feminists of KEWL were surprisingly
good at it.

 

JAMES G. LEYBLJRN !,tBR.*-.ny'
-'.'7'IS‘iTY

WASHINGTON & Lt: -  ,.
LEXINGTON, vi 

APRﬂ22ﬂ03

Letters to the Editor

Lack of student input “unconscionable”

Dear Editor,

I have recently become aware that the President’s Ad-
visory Committee has proposed altering W&L’s academic
calendar, removing Spring Term. 1 was surprised to hear
such news, since I believed that any such proposal had
died as a result of a faculty vote in 200lsupporting the
current calendar. Even more so, I was dismayed to learn that
the student body had not even been appraised of what the
committee was considering. I strongly support Spring Term
as a unique and invaluable aspect of W&L’s education.

Even more so than the value of Spring Term, 1 value
W&L’s tradition of student self-govemment. These re-
cent events have undermined this crucial aspect of the
ethos of W&L. To consider revising an aspect of the Uni-
versity that affects every student without even the cour-
tesy of letting it be known is to me unconscionable.
Sincerely, '

Marshall Woodworth ‘02

Spring Term important to alumni

Dear Editor,

The W&L experience, the one remembered so vividly by
so many alumni, is more than just an academic one. On the
issue of eliminating Spring Term, President Burish should try
not to think solely like an administrator because it is a far more
complex issue than simply juggling resources and schedules.

In addition to larger classes and temporary teachers,
eliminating Spring Tenn would eliminate a common thread
that connects so many generations of W&L students. We

are hosting a party for accepted students in Charlotte in a
couple of weeks and I usually never pass up the opportu-
nity to extol the virtues of W&L to anyone who wants to
listen. With the prospect of Spring Tenn disappearing, I
really don’t have nearly the same enthusiasm to do so.
I’mremindedeachtimeIreceivemyarmualﬁ1ndma.ilingthat

my connibution helps keep tuition down while allowing the cur-
rent students to have the same opportunities and experiences we
had By eliminating Spring Tenn, Burish is not only eliminating an
experience we alumni know current and future students would
cherish and look back on fondly if given the opportunity, but he is
relinquishingus ofﬂ1e“respor1sibilit}?’toﬁnanciallysupportsome-
thing that is no longer there. Do not underesﬁmate the importance
of those six weeks in Spring in developing the lifelong attachment
we have to the school, the same attachment that gets our check-
books out each year for the armual ﬁrncl And so, while “I come
back to this campus often, sometimes physically, other times in
my mind’s eye,” my yearly contribution won’t in the absence of
Spring Term That is extremely diﬁicult to say for someone who
currently serves on ouralumni chapterboardstill gets alurnp in
my throat when I hear “Shenandoah.”

Sincerely,

Justin Dardani ‘96

Prospective eager to experience Spring Term

Dear Editor,

As a prospective student and George Washington Honor
Scholarship ﬂnalist, I was deeply disheartened to learn that the
University was reconsidering its current undergraduate academic
schedule. The opportunities provided by Spring Term are instru-
mental to the institution’s mission and ongoing success. Spring

Term is a uniquely W&L tradition that not only sets the Univer-
sity apart but also attracts ﬁxture students. In the ﬁercely competi-
tive world of selective college admissions, any special character-
istics of an institution promote its success. Eliminating Spring
Term threatens Washington and Lee’s enviable admissions selec-
tivity and commitment to continually improving classes.

Eliminating Spring Term concunenﬂy detracts ﬁom the
uniqueness and competitiveness of the institution. I greatly hope
to join the (three term) Washington and Lee community this fall.
Sincerely,
Matt Godfrey —Prospective

Spring Term crucial to W&L’s character

Dear Editor,

Decisions like the one to end Spring Term are not
made in a static environment; they will affect aspects of
campus too numerous to fully mention in a letter. Eliminat-
ing Spring Terrn seems to me as drastic a change as mov-
ing campus to Richmond or ceasing to offer history classes.
Instituting a “regular” school calendar would destroy one
of the truly unique attributes of a school which seems to
be losing its uniqueness with each passing year. In the
University’s efforts to mimic the perceived virtues of other
schools, perhaps it should realize that every single alum-
nus in its history declined to attend any other school.

I am truly grateful to have attended Washington and
Lee when it offered the wonderful experience of Spring Term.
In the University’s myopic efforts to be all things to all people,
it is rapidly becoming nothing whatsoever to this alurrmus.
Sincerely,

Andrew Cary Simmons ‘0l

 

‘I

  

cniimu-Akin. bur
ARlS&I.IPEEDll0R
FMAr;Gu1t@wIIurrJ

MONDAY, MARCH 31, 2003

THE R}?-rum: P&

 

IE

PAGE 3

Announcing the W&L student Spring Term fundraiser

There’s a war going on.’ And this one ain’t in the
Middle East.

Before Burish rolled into Lex Vegas, the faculty had
already voted to keep spring term and had also agreed on
some ideas on how to reduce their torturous course load.
Then Burish moves into Lee House and promptly
armounced that W&L is not as cash-money bling—blingin
as we thought. That notorious money-grubbing venture,
“The Campaign for the Rising Generation,” might as well
be called “The Campaign In Which We Receive Pledges

' Of Eventual Money from Rich Alums From Which We

Will Build New Beautiful Buildings While Simultaneously
Changing W&L As We Know It Entirely.” Then again,
that doesn’t quite roll off the tongue like the current phrase.

But‘ for whatever vague, conveniently unidentiﬁed
reason, we can no longer ﬁnancially afford Spring Term, or
at least the faculty-approved improved more efficiently I'l1I1
Spring Term. We can have all the forums we want. We can
complain and write billions of nasty emails. We can publish
an inﬁnite number of scathing editorials. We
can even pretend to be liberals and hold
protest marches in the name of preserving
this great and glorious aspect of W&L life.
But will any of that make Spring Term any

ABSOLUTE FKATLORDE

   

I easier or more practical to save?? Of course not. And so,

we ﬁnd ourselves feeling collectively helpless and frustrated
as our beloved Spring Term is swept away forever.

But wait. Maybe we aren’t helpless. Maybe there is
something we can do after all. It’s all about the money, right?
Then, all we have to do is raise 55 million dollars to save our
favorite term, right?? If that’s so, then let me be the ﬁrst to
armounce the inauguration ofthe Save Spring Term Fundraiser. . ..

Considering the essentially unilateral position that

’ students have against the removal of Spring Term, I’m sure

that everyone would be willing to contribute in some way.
I’d be willing to donate half of the money to my name (tl1at’s
right, all 60 bucks of it) if it would help preserve the current

, calendar. And then after we contribute out of our own pockets,

we could call alums, who certainly wouldn’t want us to take
this lying down, so would gladly contribute. Then there are
our parents, of whom many would also be more than willing
to keep the school as we like it best. Even faculty members
might be inclined to contribute, since many of them are just

as concerned with keeping spring term as we are.
Obviously, individual donations would not be enough to
keep Spring Term aﬂoat Inevitably we would be forced to look
at more creative fundraising options. Here are a few ideas:
1) Alumni Weekend: lets milk the alums for all their
worth. Explain it clearly. . .its not a campaign for the rising
generation, it’s a campaign for OUR generation. Certainly
some of them will join the cause.
2) Buffalo Creek: Get student bands that will play for
free (i.e. Drunken Rusty — a blatant plug, of course) but
have all in attendance throw down a 10-spot in the name
of keeping the calendar how we like it. We’d all be more
than willing to help, considering an end of spring term
would also be an end to Buffalo Creek as we know it.
3) The Spring Term Phone—a—thon: During the Mock Con
Spring Kickoff, we can use the national media exposure to host
the Save Spring Term Phone-a-thon. Political Chair Michael
Denbow and Phil Walotsky can be the erncees and can use a
combination of American patriotism and idle threats to secure
donations ﬁ'om across the country.
4) The Surgeon’s Generals: The Surgeon’s
PR representative, Zach McQ11igg, can

TIM SMITHﬂ‘£_ capitalize on the growing international

popularity of the Surgeon by appealing to
professional athletes around the globe. While the Surgeon

showcases his innumerable abilities which will invariably carry
him the Heisman, future trophy buffer (Ben Jones) and the
token Lambda (yours truly) can collect ﬁnancial donations
from Danny Wuerﬂul, Charlie Ward, and other former Heisman
winners.
5) Kentucky Derby: After contacting horse-racing
experts around the world, we can pool our collected
donations and place a huge bet on the Derby which we
are bound to win. And if by some freak accident we lose,
we can use the rest of our money to place an even bigger
bet on the Preakness. Thus, we are bound to come out on
top, helping our chances to save Spring Term.
6) Fundraising Jar at the Palms: Naturally, the greatest night-
life establishment in Lex Vegas stands to lose if Spring Term
goes down the crapper. Thus, we can place collection jars at
the Pahns and at other Lexington establishments so that those
faithful to the cause can give as much as they wish.

These are just a few ideas. We can raise money in

FILE PHoro/ THE RlN(3—1l'.\I PHI

A TRADITION IN DANGER: Buffalo Creek is an annual student-s onsored event at which numerous bands
P

perform over a Spring Term weekend for the student audience at Zollrnan’s Pavilion. This beloved event, along

with numerous others, could be in danger of annihilation if Spring Term ceases to exist in the next few years.

millions of other ways, so long as we make the millions to
keep the school as we like it.

Obviously the odds are stacked against us, but it’s also
obvious that almost every student on campus feels strongly
about keeping the calendar as it is. Few outsiders can understand
how we feel. President Burish knows his ﬁnances, but what he
can’t grasp fully is how spring term can deﬁne our experience as
students at Washington and Lee. Truly, only those who have
lived through it themselves realize how special it is.

Unfortunately, we may not have any control over the
situation. Indeed, even Burish or the faculty may not

have any control over the situation. They make the
decisions, but their decisions might just as well be
determined by factors outside of their control.

But if we did something about it, like a Spring Term
Fundraiser, we can at least say that we tried. Without a
doubt, 55 million dollars is a sum that 1800 students can’t
possibly collect. But if we start a fundraiser, and it fails,
we can use that money to throw the largest party this
school has ever experienced. That way, we can say
goodbye to Spring Term the only way that most of us
know how — by saying goodbye to sobriety.

Orchestra and Sonoklect give W&L students a magical, musical experience

 

“There is a lot more restriction
playing in an orchestra than playing as
a soloist — restrictions such as tempo,
style, interpretation, etc. The goal of
each section is to make it sound uniﬁed,
so there is a lot less freedom in one’s
own interpretation. However, when all
of those factors come
together, it can leave
chills up your spine.”
—Celia Landgren,
s t u d e n t
concertrnaster.

Last Saturday, Ihad the pleasure of
attending the University Shenandoah
Symphony Orchestra and Sonoklect

  

' concert with a special World Premiere

by Professor Terry Vosbein and the star
performer Jesus Morales on the cello.
Three orchestral pieces were
played, yet I was personally impressed
by Professor Vosbein’s piece “Masque

for Cello and Orchestra” and its cello I *

solo by the talented Jesus Morales. A

,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, W long-standing ﬁiend of
ON THE ARTS

AURA LEIGH BIRDWELUO3; e n 0 w n e d

Professor Vosbein’s,
Mr. Morales is a world—

violoncelloist and the
current Principal Cellist of the Orquesta
Sinforrica de Puerto Rico. As I watched
him play, Mr. Morales maintained such
a pleasant face during the entire
performance and played so effortlessly

that I did not even consider how
difﬁcult his piece truly was. He made it
seem so simple. Celia Landgren agreed
with me, but also emphasized that it
was a “very, very, very difficult” and
technical piece to play. And for a
musician who considered attending a
university music conservatory to state
such praise says much about Morales,
not to mention the master of the
symphony itself, Professor Vosbein.
The orchestra also performed a
lovely piece entitled “Circus Polka” by
Igor Stravinsky and Charles Ives’
“Symphony No. 2.” Overall, the music
itself was lovely ~ not overwhelmingly
passionate like the Romantic composers,

not so traditional and technical as a Bach
piece, but also not so modem that the
audience couldn’t quite relate (as often
happens with modern music). It was
somewhere in-between — lighthearted
and pleasant, yet original nonetheless.
As I listened to the orchestra play,
my mind began to wander...l started
thinking about how undeniably difficult
it must be to play a complicated piece
not only ﬂawlessly, but so ﬂawlessly
that each person’s music is in complete
harmony with the 80 or so other
instruments being played! It’s all about
the timing ~ or so they say. Each
musician in the orchestra plays the beat
withinthe realrnofhis ownmind: “1, 2,

3, 1, 2, 3.”Andyet, amazingly enough, it
is impeccably melodious with everyone
else’s mind — it must be, or else the music
would, well, not be music.

l’ve forgotten much of my other
thoughts (next time, I’ll be sure to bring
a pen) while listening to the concert,
but I did notice one aspect of the
performance, common among all
orchestral pieces: each musical
instrument represented some aspect of
the symphony as a whole, relating it to
the overall theme. One could just
imagine, in “Cirmrs Polka” for example,
the quick, airy sounds of the
woodwinds representing the goofy
activity of the clowns, while the deep

and heavy drumming represented the
walk of an elephant. Likewise Professor
Vosbein says of his piece, “I came upon
the idea of a Masque. . .a party of

, guests wearing costumes. Full of

intrigue and romance. ..full of
possibilities.” I couldn’t quite identify
the exact representation of each
instrument (I mean, hey — that’s what
music classes are for, right?) and carmot
fully explain how Vosbein’s piece was
able to perform such a task. But
somehow, it did — somehow, in hearing
“Masque for Cello and Orchestra” as
my mind wandered from thought to
thought, I thought about parties and

masks, playﬁilness and merriment.

arias: 3 hours:

  

®c....e...mpus

     
    
 

 51.000 —- 53.000  your ﬂudem Group
tic-lluage fl.Il‘rIIll:‘Il‘5—él“=*;g ma-ﬁe Simple, Side" and 1'-"«'n.-2-9..

Mtdiipfe timidraisisig  milaiﬁrv. Ne  He mfﬁas. Just 
Fi.sr:dm‘tsI.rw dailies am  -tenth bi.  with the rzvnf-grim; tit-at weﬂel.

Pr;-rrr ff§1Rn—er§..‘EIorua:e*for (To?! .F‘mm;im-i;s~irzg.
388-923-3.238 »- WWt*J.€at’t1;;}E1ﬁftm£fi3.l5'3!E'.C-ﬁ3lT'l

IIIISI Hill IEIT
I III2 Illl
3 MIIIS "II [III
Ill" 453-9335 lll IIIIIIS

Woods Creek Grocery!!!

  

 
 
     

.r.PorksBot
  iandi .
 ,-Chieken

   R ; Open Late
i‘_'Pete’s,Oﬁgi'nal. Re<?lDe , ‘ 
‘ ’,vieIom‘emade,‘BBQ Sauce, on _ * I

. I Beef-_*  . I    

     sMoK|N' JlM’S      
I = j   f;O7d Virginia FirehouseRecipes   , I 

I in  is  '   Dine In or Takeout A I   I
Fridays and {Saturdays ‘til 2:30a.m.

 

1/2 lb. Burgers
All-Beef Hot Dogs
“Ba|oney" Burgers

Wings - Hot or Mild
Hamburger Steak‘
French Fries
« Seafood Baskets
(seasonal)

A         THANKYOU WASHINGTON & LEE i=oR YouR Business
 I       A  *“SINCERELYSMOKIN7JIM     t

  
    
  
   
  
 

  PETE’iS BAR-‘B-QUE STATION
Catering‘-Service

  
    
  
  

This is in no way

 an April Fools Iokei

  
 
   
  

Along with :
Galactic

  
  
 

Disco Biscuits I Stop by and see I
I Dmk Trucks for yourself!
The Other Ones

      

and manrne   ."‘““€‘.??“7”

 

    

l1RlN j mos
SPORTS EDITOR
El\l\1L'_lUIlLSE@\Y«lL7.

Ti-rt. RI\”%{;‘r~1"U1\'l'l3Ell

MONDAY, MARCH 31, 2003

 

PORTS

Baseball ends winning streak in a game against Va.

 

  

JEB BR s/THE R1NG—TUl\1PH1

HIT IT OUT OF THE PARK! A General steps up to bat in last Tuesday’s victory against the powerhouse Bridgewater Eagles, continuing the team’s stellar streak.

BY JOHN HYLAND
SPORTS WRITER

W&L’s baseball team record
breaking winning streak came to
an end at fifteen games after the
team dropped the second game of
a doubleheader against Virginia
Wesleyan on Saturday. The Gen-
erals prevailed in Game 1, how-
ever, and picked up two wins ear-
lier in the week against
Bridgewater and Hartwick to ex-
tend their streak. The team’s
record currently stands at an im-

pressive 17-3, 10-2 ODAC. They

- are a half game out of first place

in the ODAC behind Virginia
Wesleyan whose conference
record stands at 9-1.

It looked like the streak was
going to end with the Bridgewater
game, however, last Tuesday.
W&L opened up the scoring in
the fourth when junior pitcher
Bryan Mulhern doubled home
junior second baseman Austin
Allain to take a 1-0 lead. The
Eagles roared back in the sixth,
hitting three straight singles off

Men’s Lax wins two,

BY DONNY BANKS
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee
men’s lacrosse team rebounded
from two tough losses last week by
crushing Guilford, 19-3 , on Wednes-
day and defeating Lynchburg, 12-9,
Saturday afternoon.

Both opponents are in the
ODAC, which puts the Generals
record at 5-2 overall, 2-1 in the con-
ference.

The Guilford game proved to 1

be somewhat of a rest for the team,
which had already played four na-
tionally ranked teams. Although
Guilford (1-6, 0-2) scored the first
goal, W & L quickly came back and
led 3-1 at the start of the second
quarter.

Thanks to superior play by
junior attaclcman Matt Fink and jun-
ior midﬁelder Dustin Martin, who,
due to team injuries, was playing at-
tack, the Generals held a 10-1 lead
at the half.

V “Our team is a little banged up
right now, with guys like McNamara
out,” Head Coach Mike Cerino com-
mented. “We were forced to make
some changes like putting Dustin
at attack and using our bench a little
more. But I thought it was a spir-
ited effort on the part of the team

VI: II‘-lIH- II-l'U.— I II.-IH_I.I-I

 
       

l3OU1lQU

and especially the bench,” he
added.

In addition to Fink, who ﬁn-
ished with a career high six goals,
and Martin, who had three goals
and three assists, Richard Williams
had two goals, Rob Brown had a
goal and an assist, and Mark
McLewee added the same.

All three goalies, junior Ansel
Sanders, sophomore Pat Casey, and
freshman Brendan Smith, had solid
efforts with ﬁve saves.

The a g a i 11 st
m a t c h Lynchburg,
up with a team that
Iynﬂug s c o r e d
ranked more goals
17thna- against
tionally, W&L last
proved V year than
a much i did any
c lo s e r o t h e r
m e e t - midﬁelder Dustin Martin, ‘04 mm team. De-
ing. LC spite nine
(6-3,1-1) penalties

dominated the ﬁrst quarter, snag-
ging an early 4-0 lead. In the sec-
ond period, however, their boldness
subsided as Martin scored off of
an assist from Molinelli, and Fink
scored off a feed from Melanson and
then again unassisted.

In the third quarter, the Gener-
als simplygdominated. They

..

 

of Mulhern to tie the score at 1.
Senior Peter Dean relieved
Mulhern with one out in the in-
ning and two runners left on base.
Dean got the Generals out of the
inning but not before Bridewater
took a 2-1 lead. -
Bridgewater took the lead
into the top of the eighth inning
when Mulhern hit another RBI
double to score senior
centerfielder Bobby Littlehale
who led off the inning with a
single to tie the score at 2. The
game was still tied with two outs

is 5-2

notched two goals in a span of 42
seconds and mirrored LC’s ﬁrst
quarter with a 4-0 run. From there,
they jumped out to an 11-6 lead
and held on for the victory.

Martin led the team in scor-
ing with four goals, while Fink tal-
lied two goals and two assists. In
addition, McLewee added two
goals and one assist. In goal,
Sanders played well with 13 clutch
saves.

The win was significant

for 6:30 and a 47-24 shot disparity,
the Generals played well and can
now easily put their losses behind
them. _
Their next action will come
Tuesday against VMI in the an-
nual Lee-Jackson game. It will be
played at 7:30 at Rockbridge

County High School.

in the top of the ninth when
Allain doubled. Senior first
baseman Brian Gladysz came
through with a single that‘
scored Allain to give the Gener-
als a 3-2 lead. In the bottom of
the ninth, senior pitcher Michael
Hanson, who started the game
at shortstop, pitched a perfect
ninth inning to seal the victory.
Hanson pitched three scoreless
innings ofrelief to earn his first
victory of the season. The win
gave the Generals their first sea-
son sweep of Bridgewater since

1983. The Eagles entered the
weekend in sole possession of
third place in the ODAC with a
record of 6-2.

The Generals turned around to
face Hartwick in a non-conference
contest at home on Wednesday but
the game would prove to be much
less dramatic than the previous
days’ victory. W&L took an 8-0 lead
in the first two innings thanks in
large part to Gladysz, who hit two
homers in his first two at bats, driv-

. ing in four runs and Mulhern who

hit a homer and a triple over the ﬁrst
two innings. Mulhern would later hit
another two rim bomb, his team lead-
ing fourth homer, in the fourth in-
ning en route to a monstrous offen-
sive afternoon in which he went 4
for 4 with three runs scored and four
RBIs. Every General starter reached
base safely as the team pounded out
15 hits to cruise to a 15-2 victory.
Junior pitcher Mike Wert allowed
two runs over six innings to earn the
win and improve his record to a per-
fect 4-0 on the year. Sophomores
Ken Hackman and Brian Higgins
pitched three innings of shutout re-
lief

The Generals had gained se-
rious momentum entering the
weekend doubleheader with
conference leader Virginia
Wesleyan on Cap’n Dick Smith
Field. The Generals opened up
the scoring in the fourth inning
of game 1 on an RBI single by
sophomore third baseman Adam
Bullock who drove home
Mulhern to take a 1-0 lead. The
Generals added to their lead in
the fifth when Hanson led off
the inning by reaching first on
an error by the second baseman.
Allain walked and Littlehale
singled to load the bases for the
red hot Mulhern who delivered
with a two run single. The 3-0
lead was more than starting
pitcher Dean would need. The

Women’s tennisoompetes in

BY ALLISON PERRY
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee
women’s tennis team started out strong
in the Fab Five tournament with wins
over Claremont-Mudd-Scripps and Trin-
ity (Tex). The annual tournament, which
invites the top Division III teams in the
country, was held at Emory University
in Atlanta. The women left early Thurs-
day morning to prepare for matches on
Friday, Saturday, and Sunday.

On Friday, the Generals shut
down Claremont-Mudd-Scripps, 9-0.
CMS is tied for tenth place in the na-
tional rankings.

Sophomore Lindsay Hagerman led
the team with a 6-3, 7-5 win over eigth-
ranked Rebecca Dutton in the No. 1
singles match. Hagerrnan is currently
tied for 13‘place. Senior captain Erika
Proko defeated her opponent, 22’ ranked

Elizabeth DiNapoli, 6-1 , 6-1 in the No. 2
spot. Proko is ranked 26 in the nation

In the No. 3 singles match, senior
captain Laura Bnmo won her match 6-3 ,
6-0. Senior Brandi Jane Wedgeworth de-
feated her opponent 6-2, 6-0 at No. 4. At
No. 5 and 6, freshman Lisa Mabry and
junior Liz Law both won their matches 4-
6, 7-5 (10-2) and 6-2, 6-1, respectively.

In doubles play, fifth-ranked
Hagerman and Proko teamed up to de-
feat their opponents 8-2 at No. 1.
Bruno and Mabry won their match 8-
6 at No. 2. At No. 3, Law and sopho-
more Lora Farris also defeated their
opponents 8-6. CMS now has a
record of 6-8 overall.

On Saturday, the Generals won a
close match over Trinity, 5-4. Trinity
has a record of 7-4 overall. W&L im-
proved its record to 19-0 overall.

Hagerrnan led the way with a win
over ﬁﬁh- ranked Lindsay Smith, 1-6,

Wesleyan

PAGE 4

southpaw pitched brilliantly.

He overcame three General er- 7

rors to pitch seven shutout in-
nings, allowing four hits and
zero walks while striking out:

seven. The complete game vic- ,.

tory gave Dean his team lead-

ing fifth victory of the season.
The nightcap would go the

Marlins way from the start. _

They scored five runs on four “ii

hits in the first inning off of
Generals starter Dan Kagey,
thanks in part to two errors. The
lead would prove to be insur-

mountable. The Generals cut the 7

lead to four runs three times on A‘
a home run by Hanson in the
first and two run scoring hits

C7?

from Mulhern in third and the 4,

seventh. Mulhern also calmed "4
the Virginia Wesleyan bats as

he relieved Kagey in the fourth »
and allowed only one run over“;

six innings. The Generals V

threatened to cut even more into ‘
the Marlins lead on numerous -'-
occasions. They hit Virginia I?
Wesleyan pitchers Adam 
Hamilton and Zack Baker hard
all game, pounding out 12 hitsm
and hitting numerous outs to
the outfield. The Generals left a "
total of 11 runners on base in 8 7'
out of9 innings to endure a 7-3 
defeat. It was their first home
loss of the season. :-
Despite the loss, the Gener-7;
als outplayed the Marlins after
the first inning and should get *
another crack at them in the
ODAC playoffs. Bryan Mulhern 11
completed an incredible week on 3;’
Saturday in which he went 12 for K
16 at the plate with four runs 5
scored and ten RBIs. He also
pitched 11 and a third innings and‘
only gave up three runs. The Gen- 1
erals hope to begin a new streak
when they face Roanoke on Tues-
day in their last game before ’
Spring Break.

6-4, 6-2 at No. 1 singles. Proko de- (l
feated 16 ranked Berica Day 6-2, 6-0 at _J
No. 2. At No. 3, Bruno was defeated 5
by 36 ranked Heather McGowan, 6-4,
6-1. Wedgeworth had a victory of 6-1,
6-0 at No. 4 singles. At No. 5, Trinity’s
Jackie Mendillo defeated Mabry 6-3,?”
6-4. Law also lost her match to Christy
Austin, 6-4, 2-6, 6-4 in the No. 6 spot. 1

In doubles action, Hagerman and
Proko defeated the second-ranked
team of Austin and McGowan, 8-2 at
No. 1. At No. 2, Bruno and Mabry,
lost to the 15 ranked team of Smith ~
andAbbe Ulrich, 8-2. Farris and Law :3
teamed up to defeat their opponents
8-2 in the No. 3 spot. 

The Generals then played ﬁrst-'1‘
ranked Emory on Sunday morning. Re-
sults were not available at press time.

The women play next at Meth- _
odist on April 16 at 2:30 p.m. Meth- ’
odist is ranked 21*‘ in the nation.

Women’s lax now 7-1, Taffe honored 

FROM STAFF REPORTS

In a game played in Washing-
ton, D.C., Washington and Lee’s
Women’s lacrosse team defeated
Catholic 14-8. The team was led by
Kelly Taffe, ’04, who recorded an
eight-point afternoon. Katharine
Lester, ’06, and Leslie Bogart, ’03, ﬁn-
ished the game with two points

Squash team squashes competition

BY ERIN Juuus
SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee’s latest
unofficial club sport, the squash
team, placed third in the third an-
nual Southern Squash Conference
tournament held last weekend,
March 21 and 22 in Chapel Hill, NC.

The tum-out this year was the
largest in the toumament’s history,
with UNC, UVA, NC State, Duke,
Wake Forest, Davidson and W&L
participating. UVA took first place
in the tournament, with 27 points,
while UNC placed second with 16
and W&L behind in third, with nine
points.

apiece.

Goaltender Joanna Perini, ’04, had
11 saves for the Generals.

The Generals take to the ﬁeld
again on Wednesday when it hosts
Bridgewater for a 4 p.m. match.

On another Lacrosse note, Taffe

has been named the Warrior/Inside

Lacrosse National Division III
Women’s Player of the Week. This

Virginia won the first two tour-
nament as well.

Greg Michaels won the first
ﬂight at the tournament while Nate
Johnson took the second ﬂight.
John Hyland took third in the fourth
ﬂight.

W&L had an excellent third-
place ﬁnish, considering acheived
this with only four people playing.

The tournament includes eight
separate competitions for players in
the order by which their team ranks
them Ideally, a team would take at
least eight people so that everyone
could play in a ﬂight, seated one
through eight according to their
abilities.

news was released on March 26. '
Taffe earned this honor after
a week in which she recorded“
eight goals and one assists in wins}
over Hollins and Mary Washing-‘”
ton. Taffe then led the Generals '
to a 23-7 victory over Lynchburg”
on Tuesday, March 25 when she
scored six goals and added two”
assists. 1

.. r_aw._-gﬁ’

Had the entire team gone to the’
tournament, it looks like W&L
would leave easily taken ﬁrst. 7'

This year, there has been a
lot of interest in the squash
team, with about 25 people buy-_
ing T-shirts designed by thef
team. The team’s hope is that‘;
its success in this tournament‘.
will modivate the administration,
to build new squash courts and
to allow the team to become more‘;
organized within the sports club"
ranks. ..

Because the team is comprised ,1
mostly of sophomores, the hope
is that the team will remain on,"
campus and continue to grow.

 

7‘

I

Fab 5 tourney;

