/‘trek
5 375-755
T‘? 55?...

‘I./.[g5
"}"!C’, 2 4

CR2.’

W&L attorney
shedstunher
light on Brief

BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTT
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

4

Y The W&L Board of Trustees had
to swiﬁly decide whether to ﬁle an
amicus brief on behalf of race-con-
scious admissions policies, said Uni-

' versity Attorney Leanne Shank.

An aniicus brief is advice offered
to a court by a party not involved in
the litigation.

“President (Tom Burish) and I

< brought the matter up to the Board at

the February Board meeting,” said
Shank, who summarized the briefs
they had been requested to join.

._, At that time, the trustees empow-
ered the Board’s Executive Commit-
tee to choose one if any brief before
the Feb. 18 filing deadline.

The Executive Committee was

V aided by an informal working group

composed of Dean of the Law School

David Partlett, Shank and eight to 10

trustees, most of them lawyers.

The Board wanted to find a brief
in line with W&L’s values and cul-
ture, Shank said. It also wanted to
avoid misrepresenting itself to the
public.

V “This is a case that can easily be

misunderstood,” Shank said.

“We wanted it to be clear that we
supported taking race into consider-
ation, but only as one of many fac-
tors.”

For that reason, W&L joined the
McGough brief, named alter its coun-
sel of record, W. Thomas McGough,
‘Y a partner in the Reed Smith law firm.

The brief stresses that it does
not support the University of
Michigan’s preferential “point sys-
tem.” Rather, it states that all signa-
tories “in their support of excellence
in education (support) meaningful di-
versity.”

The brief supports Supreme
-4 Court Justice Lewis Powell’s decision

in University of California v. Bakke

sEE AMICUS, PAGE 2

 

DO YOL' RFMEMBERP

from clay Buddhas to a nip to St Thomas.

NG—TUM PHI

Sp

if JEE BROOKE / The Ring-tum Phi
SOBRIEIY? Campus and Greek organizations came together
for a night of sobriety on Friday. The night culminated at
Leticia Evans Pate  Hallwhere Dean David Howison
acted as auctioneer distributing all kinds of prizes 

BY KATIE HOWELL
EDITOR IN CHIEF

A new proposal concerning faculty teach-
ing loads, class sizes and graduation require-
ments may bring the future of spring term back
into the campus spotlight. The proposal will
be announced today and posted on the Wash-
ington and Lee Web site, said Student Leader-
ship Committee member Mavia Brown.

The Faculty Advisory Committee is mak-
ing the proposal in response to late Presi-

dent John Elrod’s decision that all faculty
workloads be reduced by one course every
two years.

W&L faculty members each currently
teach seven courses per year, according
to the University registrar’s Web page.
Elrod, however, wanted the teaching load
lowered to six courses every other year.
Brown said in order to do this, the Uni-
versity must consider the overall calen-
dar so that class sizes remain small and
students are still able to take all the gradu-

VOLUMECV,NO.XXlV
MONDAY, MARCH 24, 2003

ring erm may be in question again

ation and general education requirements
needed.

The Student Leadership Committee as
well as other students and faculty around carn-
pus think that the future of spring term may be
an issue raised in the proposal.

Once the proposal is made, President
Thomas Burish will debate it with faculty
and students before the faculty will make
the final decision. The proposal should
be placed on the University Web site to-
day.

WAR. Students gather around the television in the Co—op Wednesday’ night to

‘( watch President George Bush speak shortly after Iraqi President Saddam Hussein

Mock Con spring kickoff approaches

BY KYIE WAss AND KATIE HOWELL
SENIOR STAFF WRITER AND EDITOR IN CHIEF

The first black woman to manage a political campaign will be a
keynote speaker in the Mock Convention Spring kickoff this May.
Donna Brazile, who managedAl Gore’s presidential campaign in 2000,
may possibly be joined by Rev. Al Sharpton, University of Virginia
politics professor Larry Sabato, Cook Political Report founder, Charlie
Cook, and the country-rock band Wilco for the Kick-off, said Mock
Convention General Chairman Noah Rhodes.

“The Kick-off will revolve around an Issues Panel, a Media Panel
and a band on Friday night,” Rhodes said.

The Spring Kick-off, scheduled for May 8 and 9, will feature
several keynote speakers such as Brazile and possibly Sharpton on
Thursday and Friday, an Issues Panel on Thursday aﬁemoon featur-
ing Sabato and Cook and a band Friday night. Rhodes said Wilco will
most likely be the Kick-off performers.

Rhodes said the committee is waiting to hear back from both
Sharpton and Wilco before ﬁnal plans for the Kick-off can be made.

“We’ve been in contact with Sharpton,” Rhodes said. “We’re
just trying to negotiate an honorarium right now.”

Over the past few months, Rhodes and the other two Mock
Convention tri-chairs, Jacquelyn Clark and Michael Denbow, have
arranged speakers and events, chosen regional chairmen and state
chairmen, started a fund raising campaign and made general plans for
the event to be held next January.

Rhodes said the State Chairmen are currently seeking committee
members to serve as delegation vice chairmen, secretaries, treasurers
and ﬂoat chairmen. Interested individuals should contact their appro-
priate state chairs over the next two weeks if they want to get involved.

“We’re ahead of schedule in a lot of regards,” Rhodes said.

i “We’ve had ﬁmd-raising trips across the country and talked with

alumni. We’re taking a very pro-active approach. When it all comes
together, it’s going to happen in a ﬂurry. Everything is going to fall
together in a big way.”

Washington and Lee is well-known for consistently holding
a realistic mock convention for the political party out of ofﬁce in
a given election year. United Press International was quoted in
1976 as saying that it is “the nation’s most accurate mock con-
vention.” Furthermore, their Web site boasts that “in a decade

when America’s youth have been dubbed ‘disengaged,’ ‘unmo-
tivated,’ and ‘apathetic,’ the Mock Convention of Washington
and Lee University contradicts these generalizations with its
raucous realism and its remarkable prediction rate,” and former
Senator Bob Dole has also said that W&L “[has] got a great
record. . .you don’t miss very much at all.” Dole was one of the
featured guest speakers at the 2000 Republican Mock Conven-
tion. This year, the mock convention will be for the democratic
party.

While Oberlin College in Ohio claims the oldest mock con-
vention — theirs dates back to pre-Civil War — W&L’s has been
in existence since 1908. W&L holds the best record for con-
tinually correctly predicting the actual candidate, however, with
a record 17 correct predictions out of 22 attempts. The school’s
first mock convention — the 1908 Democratic Mock Convention
— drew the first correct prediction, naming the democratic can-
didate William Jennings Bryan, who was later selected at the
actual Democratic National Convention in Denver. In addition,
since 1948, the convention has been mistaken only once. The
Mock Convention’s Web site is quick to note the correct pre-
dictions Washington and Lee has made in this area, including
Nixon in 1968, Carter in 1976', Reagan in 1980, Dukakis in 1988,
Clinton in 1992, Dole in 1996, and Bush in 2000. W&L contrib-
utes the consistent continuation of perfect forecasts to the great
amount of research that participants undertake to fully under-
stand the political convictions and probable decisions of all
fifty states, and thus “even personal political preferences are
put aside in preparation for an accurate convention,” according
to the website’s history of the event.

Washington and Lee’s mock convention currently attracts cov-
erage from papers like The Washington Post, who in 1996 called the
convention “one of the nation’s oldest and most prestigious mock
conventions,” to news stations like C-SPAN, with media interest
steadily growing, according to the convention’s Web site. Thus,
students can expect to see comparable and growing media coverage
in January of 2004.

As in previous years, this will be a festive event, with a spring
kickoff in 2003, a fall 2003 presidential gala, and the grand parade the
week of the event in 2004. Also, the event usually boasts keynote
speakers like Jimmy Carter and Bob Dole.

Univ. pulls out all
stops for Scholars

TALLIEJAMISON / T}IeRmg-t1m1Pbz'

failed to meet Bush’s ultimatum and leave Iraq. A brief survey showed mixed
feelings among W&L students and faculty about the war.

 

 

 

. Stop-in s

,/‘<.  A 4;’ € , _ 9: .
2

  

2,. _.

Fﬁ§§»¥‘~ ” W12.»

BY MEGAN MORGAN
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

Ifyou passed the Lexington Stop-In in recent weeks, you
probably noticed the shamrocks that cover its walls. These
shamrocks are not just decorations for St. Patrick’s Day, but
instead are part of a muscular dystrophy ﬁmdraiser hosted by
the regional Stop-In stores. Each store sells paper shamrocks,
which are signed by the customer that purchases them and
hung on the wall of the stores. The money ﬁ'om these sales is
used to send regional kids with muscular dystrophy to Roanoke
MDAcarrip at Smith Mountain Lake 4-H center. Forevery $525
they raise, they are able to send one kid to camp. In addition,
some of the money will also be used to give complete diagnos-

BY CAIEY ANDERSON
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

F rom all over the country, poten-
tial honor scholars from the future
class of 2007 came to Washington &
Lee last week to compete for scholar-
ships at W&L ranging from half-tu-
ition to full tuition, room and board.
The honor scholars stayed in the
dorm rooms of current W&L fresh-
men, most of whom were either honor
scholars themselves, or members of
the Student Recruiting Committee.

Thebusyschedule ofthe honor schol-
ars included three interviews with three
diﬁerent panels, one comprised of stu-
dents, one of teachers, and one of admis-
sionsofﬁceoﬁicials. Theyalsoparticipated
in a plethora of on-campus events, includ-
ingtours, meetingswithfacultyandsports
ofﬁcials and other activities.

To be considered for an honor
scholarship, aprospective student must
ﬁll out an addendum to his or her Wash-

ington & Lee application. This adden-
dum is effectively one additional essay.
This year, students could have selected
from one of four topics, one on Thomas
Jeﬂ‘er_son’s quote “Were it left to me to
decide whether we should have a gov-
ernment without newspapers or news-
papers without a government, I should
not hesitate a moment to prefer the lat-
ter,” one on federal government in-
volvement in national poverty, one on
any profound work of art, literature, or
music that had affected the student, and
one on what the student believes to be
the most signiﬁcant technological ad-
vance of the Twentieth Century.

This year, just under 100 students
came to W&L to compete for an honor
scholarship; roughly half of the com-
petitors every year will end up receiv-
ing merit-based aid of some sort, ac-
cording to the Admissions office. Stu-
dents from 34 diﬁerent US. states, and
three different countries all came to
Lexington to compete, including a 10

SEE SCHOLARS, PAGE 2

hamrocks sponsor students for summer camp

tic test, ﬂu shots, dystrophin test to diagnose Duchenne, a
complete set of chest and spine x-rays, an initial and follow up
clinic visit as well as to buy wheelchairs, leg braces and com-

munication devices and repairing existing equipment.

So far the Stop—In stores have raised more than $23,000.
Lexington Stop-In has done particularly well, raising more than
$1270. Theyarethe secondliighest ﬁmdiaiserinthe region, and
employee Mike Hudnall says this is in large part “through the
generosity of the kids at Washington and Lee.” The Lexington
store hopes that by the time the ﬁmdraiser ends on March 31
theywillhave raised$l,575, enoughto sendthree kids to camp.
SHAMROCKS. (right) Community members helped sponsor local
children to camp  these shamrocks for $1 each. Stopln
employees then hung them on the walls and windows for all to see.

 

PAGE 2

 

Dittman makes sure we have classes

BY IMRAN NAEEMULLAH
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

Trivia question: which Washing-
ton and Lee administrator affects the
lives of virtually everyone on campus,
yet strives to make his job as invis-
ible as possible? The answer is Scott
Dittman, the University Registrar.
Dittman has served as W&L’s regis-
trar since 1985, coordinating every-
_thing from institutional research to
registration to transcripts. His office,
located in the University Center, is
home to four other staffers, in addi-
tion to various student workers.
Dittman stresses that the Registrar’s
Office seeks to minimize its impact on
everyone, meaning that if his job is
done properly, most people shouldn’t
even know he’s doing it.

Dittman was raised in upstate
New York, and attended Colgate
University in Canton, N.Y., where he
was one of the first four computer
science majors in Colgate history.
He recalls that it wasn’t even a speci-
fied major, and that he and the three
others had to put together their own
major from an assortment of courses
offered. An unusual aspect of Can-
ton is that it is a small town of ap-
proximately 6,500 people, located off
of US-11, with two colleges within
its borders, much like a certain town
in southern Virginia. However,
Dittman did not go straight to W&L
after graduating in 1975.

Instead, he served for a brief pe-
riod in the Peace Corps, working with
the Boy Scouts of America in Barba-
dos. On the ﬂight from Miami to Bar-
bados, Dittman met a woman named
Susan, and it turned out she, too, was
going to be serving in the Peace
Corps. The two were married a couple

of years later, in 1978.

After returning to the United
States, Dittman was hired as the reg-
istrar at Muskingum College in Ohio,
alma mater to astronaut John Glenn.
He also pursued graduate work at
Western Illinois University in
Macomb, lll. Around the rnid—l980’s,
however, Dittman wanted to move to
Virginia. His parents had moved to
Williamsburg, and Susan was origi-
nally from Alexandria, so they headed
south, and Dittman began looking for
a job. When the position at Washing-
ton and Lee opened, he took it, and
has been at W&L ever since. He re-
members that his predecessor didn’t
even have a computer on his desk,
and PC’s were very rare at the time, so
part of the reason that Dittman was
hired was because he had a back-
ground in computers. One of his im-
mediate objectives was to help mod-
ernize the campus and move it forward.

One of Dittrnan’s favorite things
about his job is the fact that he gets
to interact with so many people, in-
cluding negotiating with faculty mem-
bers which classrooms they get to use
and advising students with their de-
gree work. That’s where Dittman some-
times has to be very careful, because
he says that every year he has to hold
a couple of uncomfortable conversa-
tions with students where he informs
them that they may not be able to
graduate with their class because of
unfulﬁlled credits. Fortunately, they
are often able to resolve it, but
Dittman says that there are cases
where a student ﬁnds out two nights
before graduation that he will in fact
not be graduating, and this is some-
thing Dittman hates doing.

In addition, Dittman serves on
various University committees, in-

   
    

and grades

jI=.B BROOKS / T/re Rrrrg-rm P/yr

DITTMAN. Dittman supervises  from drop / add to the ﬁve—year academic calendar

cluding the one on Courses and De-
grees and Faculty Executive Comniit—
tee. He is in fact a standing member of
these, serving as Secretary, and has
served on committees like the Foreign
Studies Committee. Through these,
and his work in the ofﬁce, Dittman has
gotten to know many faces around
campus. This, he says, is the best part
about being at Washington and Lee,
getting to know so many different
people.

Going forward, Dittman would
like to see W&L continue to modem-
ize its computer systems. He would
like to see the registration process
continue to improve, offering, for ex-
ample, drop/add facilities online in-
stead of on paper. He wants to see
new software installed that lets stu-
dents view their business ofﬁce ac-
counts and see their financial aid pack-
ages online. He emphasizes that his
office’s goal is always to be as unob-
trusive as possible, conducting an
efﬁcient operation day in and day out,

so that the W&L community can ex-
pect a consistent experience whenever
they visit the Registrar’s Office.

Outside of work, Dittman enjoys
spending time with his family. He has
three children, daughters Sarah Anne,
19, and Griffin, 17, as well as his son,
Clay, 13. Sarah Anne is a sophomore
at Texas Christian University, while
Grifﬁn and Clay are in high school and
middle school, respectively, right here
in Lexington. Susan, his wife, is the
president of the Rockbridge Area
Recreational Organization (R.A.R.O.),
and was the founder of the women’s
volleyball team at W&L. Dittman is
also involved in General’s Christian
Fellowship, and enjoys volunteering
in the community on a regular basis.

Although he may not see most
people on a daily basis, Dittman’s
work certainly affects nearly every-
one on campus, and the W&L com-
munity is certainly grateful for the
great service he and his office pro-
vide.

AMICUS, FROM PAGE 1

(1978).

Powell earned both his 1929 B.A
and 1931 J .D. from W&L.

Shank has been following these
cases from the appellate level on a le-
gal listserv.

“There’s been a tremendous

amount of discussion among attor-
neys about recent rulings,” Shank
said.

The Supreme Court likely decided
to hear the Michigan cases after sev-
eral of the federal courts of appeal re-
turned conﬂicting opinions, she said.

For example, the ﬁfth Circuit’s
Hopwood v. State of Texas (2000)

 

Monday- Sunny, 67/41

I Lexington

Forecast

ruled that it was unconstitutional “to
elevate some races over others,” while
the sixth Circuit’s Grutter v. Bollinger
(2002) recognized “compelling state
interest in narrowly tailored” diversity
programs.

The 12 federal courts of appeal
are second in authority only to the
Supreme Court. ’

, pE-mail news briefs to
z'@rvlu.edu

 

“Sometimes the Supreme Court
will wait until there has been a num-
ber of briefs filed and research done
before hearing a case,” Shank said.

The Supreme Court will hear oral
arguments before the Supreme Court
on April 1. Its decision will likely be
made before the July 1 end of its cur-
rent terrn. I

    

IH

MONDAY. MIRCII 24. 2003; _

SCHOLARS, PR()l\l l’.~\(}H 1

cal student from Lexington.
Reactions from the honor scholars were overwhelmingly positive. Ben
Accinelli, from Dubuque, Iowa, said “The school really is a great place.

you could really ask for.”

“During the interviews, it didn’t seem like a grilling session, just like
the people were trying to talk to me and get to know me,” said Matthew
Loar, of Litteton, Colorado.

When asked what their favorite part of their trip to W&L was, the
honor scholars were fairly unanimous.

Katie Bray, Westminster, Maryland- “Salemo’s.”

Dave Kronenfeld, Greensboro, North Carolina— “Salemo’s.”

Christina Chick, Newmarket, New Hampshire- “Salemo’s.”

Kyle Vinson, Whitsett, North Carolina— “Deﬁnitely Salemo’s.”

congratulations!

The Ring-tum Phi won the following awards
at the 2003 Virginia Press Association
college journalism competition.

lst place—Picture story or essay, J eb Brooks.
1 st place—Column writing, Timothy Smith,
“Absolute Fratlord.”
2nd place-Headline writing,-Katie Howell.
2nd place—Column writing, Sam LaGrone,
“The Guy Next Door.” T
. 3rd place-Art--Informational graphics, Katie Howell.
E 3rd place—General news writing, Andrew Latirner.
3 3rd place-Editorial writing, Nicholas Ramsey.
3rd place—Sports pages, Sports staff.

 5:1 - '53.ﬂ@0 for your  Gemr.q:II=
in just 3 h-ours!
" lzztlrridr ”=sz:'ng ii I4,  as 2;. " ,' _j

       

asicélixzxée I§.l‘¥!3,§.'-.'.3.iZ%l§“l,£{ ta 3:» %'.<Jr:« 2z:*vr.ra°:’§w.s iris ?"2I,l5§"‘§. .ixr$l '5-t.!?.F3°.“.*.?,’:35
Fisnir$n'r?¢s.iu.g -::la2es rm: fil£r'§.§§ r;u3r.'kiy. tier a<.«ri'lz— rim pe~:rg;,r-.-mi; rim. a<.=r:«r€>».3

anus

§'i.<rr.I‘ l"Ir“s’im’r‘r.5 .’.§l‘2Ir.Iw-‘_,'?.Ir £'r.tr‘3r*§z-' fir; :r£2*rIi.ia r.=_'::*.

388-922.‘

     

-32.38 - vrww.cara1pusftrnIira:%ser.cem: I

Undergraduates, law
students will interact this week

BY jar; BROOKS
Pll()T() I:I>IToR

University School of Law, was constructed in 1976. Since
its construction, students from the two schools have not

Tuesday- Partly Cloudy, 72/44
Wednesday- Partly Cloudy, 70/45
Thursday— Partly Cloudy- 51/31
Friday- Partly Cloudy, 58/41
Saturday- Partly Cloudy- 65/42
Sunday- Partly Cloudy- 64/43

 

MONDAY, MARCH 24.

Future of Medicare Conference, All day, Moot Court
Room.

Early Modern England lecture, 7:30 p.m., Northen Au-
ditorium.

TUESDAY, MARCH 25.

Alice Steinbach will speak at the Women at Work se-
ries, 12:00 p.m., University Center Room 114, R.S.V.P.

University Wind Ensemble concert, 8:00 p.m., Lenfest
Center.

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 26.

Woodrow Wilson Fellow Alice Steinbach will speak,
7:30 p.m., Lee Chapel.

THuRsDAY, MARCH 27. .

Celebrating Student Success Gala Awards Announce-
ment, 7:00 p.m., Lee Chapel.

One Acts, 2003, 8:00 p.m., Johnson Theater, Lenfest
Center.

FRIDAY, MARCH 28.

Public Lecture at 35th Institute on the Ethics in Jour-
nalism, Tim McGuire, 4:30 p.m., Williams School, Room
327.

One Acts, 2003, 8:00 p.m., Johnson Theater, Lenfest
Center.

SATURDAY, MARCH 29, 2003.

One Acts, 2003, 8:00 p.m., Johnson Theater, Lenfest
Center.

SUNDAY, MARCH 30, 2003.

One. Acts 7.003 R-00 n m lnhnsnn Theater I pnfegt

Bidlack receives grants

Richard H. Bidlack, a Washington and Lee University
associate professor of history and Russian area studies,
has been awarded a sabbatical fellowship from the Ameri-
can Philosophical Society for the 2003-04 academic year.

The grant, as well as a second one he has received from
the National Endowment for the Humanities, will support his
writing of a long-researched book on the 872—day siege of
Leningrad by Nazi Germany and its allies in World War H.

lim McGuire will speak

Nationally acclaimed ethicist Tim J. McGuire, also a
columnist, speaker and consultant, will deliver a speech,
“Ethical Stewardship: Expanding Our Notion of Ethical
Choice” on Friday, March 28 at 4:30 p.m. The talk will take
place in Room 327 of Washington and Lee University’s
Williams School of Commerce, Economics, and Politics.

The lecture, which is the centerpiece of a two-day
symposium, involving students and practicing jouma1-
ists from wide geographic and diverse professional areas,
is free and open to the public.

George Singleton will speak

Author George Singleton, a ﬁction writer and teacher
whose most recent collection of short stories, “The Half-
Mammals of Dixie,” has received national acclaim, will be
presenting a reading and book signing on Monday, March
24, at 4:30 p.m. in Northern Auditorium.

The reading is sponsored by The Arthur and Marga-
ret Glasgow Endowment Committee of Washington and
Lee University. The event is free and open to the public.

Environmental racism panel approaches

A panel discussion on “Environmental Racism and
the Rise of the Environmental Justice Movement” will be
held Wednesday, March 19, at Washington and Lee
University’s School of Law.

The discussion is at 6 p.m. in Classroom A at the law
school. A reception will follow the event, which is co-
sponsored by W&L’s Environmental Law Society and the
Black Law Students Association.

Run for law on Saturday

This Saturday, W&L and VMI students and statf as well
as Lexington residents, will participate in the Public Interest
Law Students Association’s run for the law, a 10k race beneﬁt-
ting up and coming law students. Warm-ups start at 7: 15 at
the Rockbridge Library, and the race will ﬁnish at the Ruins.

Proceeds will beneﬁt the Public Interest Law Stu-
dents Association Summer Fellowships — a non—profit

Across the world’s longest single span concrete
arched footbridge is the Washington and Lee University
School of Law. Lewis Hall will be opened to undergradu-
ates on Tuesday, March 25, 2003. The Student Leader-
ship Committee will match interested undergraduate and
law students for a day of classes.

Lewis Hall, the third home of the Washington and Lee

mingled much. Event organizers hope to increase interac-
tion and help undergraduates learn what law school is all
about.

Tuesday’s festivities are part of the larger “Get Across
the Bridge” initiative. The program is designed to “better
law and undergraduate student relations.” The proposed
bar in the John W. Elrod University Commons aims to
accomplish this same goal.

Executive Committee report, March 17,2003

BY CALEY ANDERSON
ASSISTANT NW3 IIDITOR
The Executive Committee spent most of its Mon-

day, March 17 meeting discussing modifications to the
curremt organizational funding policy. It was decided

that the Executive Committee will now be able to fund
organizational expenses related to telephone usage and
mileage for car transportation. Also discussed was
the possibility of funding religious organizations, how-
ever, the EC did not act at this time to either approve or
disapprove the funding of such clubs.

The Cadet Program Board
is proud to present

The Pat McGee Band

March 28, (83 at 8 p.m.

in Cameron Hall

Lexington, VA

/I

Nice brick buildings and lots’of friendly people, I don’t know what more 1

 

  

BRETT ‘ 1‘. KIRVCAN

OPINIONS EDITOR

- 

.E'DU

Mom, MARCH 24, 2003



Sing Snabes as Unsung General

The competition for the John W. Elrod Un-
sung General of the Year is again upon us and
chances are that the winner won’t be all that
unsung.

The nominations are in and many of the
nominees are the same faces we see again and
again on the school’s website, in university pub-
lications and in admissions material. Truly, these
people are many of the brightest lights in the
Washington and Lee community, but is not the
purpose of the competition to recognize those
students who “work hard, behind the scenes,
to make W&L all that it is?”

Samantha Snabes is, far and away, the nomi-
nee who best fulfills the vision of a hard-working
student who donates her time both on campus
and in town to make W&L and Lexington better
places. Her dedication to acaderriics, athletics,
extracurricular activities and volunteering in the
community, combined with her low profile, sets
Snabes apart as an example of a General doing
good work without sufficient recognition.

Snabes is a team leader for Young Life at
Rockbridge County High School. Amy Blevins
describes her as “very dedicated” and adds that
she “pours her life out for those kids.” Andy
Dewhurst comments that “it seems as if Young
Life is her only activity. She is totally committed.”

Snabes saves in other ways as she volun-
teers for the Lexington Lifesaving Crew where
she is on call from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m. up to two
nights a week.

She is also a student manager at the Snack

: Bar. Her supervisor, Isca King, praises her as

“an example” and “a good worker who cares
about her job.” King’s only complaint is that
Snabes has not “been too good about punctual-
ity,” but “probably because she is so involved.”

Athletics, too, are a Snabes specialty. She is
a star of both the cross-country and track teams.
In fact, she is featured this week in the Phi for
her excellence in the Roanoke Invitational.

But the long list of involvement doesn’t end
there. Snabes is second chair viola in the or-
chestra, a Peer Tutor, a Resident Assistant in
Gaines Hall and a volunteer for Women in
Technology and Science (WIT S).

Finally, Snabes is not a traditional student.
She transferred to W&L from Evangel Univer-
sity in Springﬁeld, Mo., after her freshman year.

We urge W&L to celebrate a truly unsung
General this year and honor Samantha Snabes.

‘ troops as liberators

-4.

 
  

'te of the Week

“The criminal little Bush has committed a

crime against humanity.”
~Saddam Hussein, orhis double,
on Iraqi state TV

J. Sam Slicer, 1898L
Katie J . Howell

Brett T. Kirwan
Catherine C. Guy

J eb Brooks

Erin Julius

Caley Anderson
Tallie Jamison

Founder

Editor in chief
Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Photo Editor
Sports Editor
Asst. News Editor
Photographers
Copy Editor Donny Banks
Business Manager
Circulation Director
Advertising Assistant

Thomas Worthy
Henry Grimball
McQueen Calvert

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor in chief, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and colurrms do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address.‘ 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

“Tar: :R.l}{'(}.l~"i“i_7??~.i Pa:

PINIONS

Op. Iraqi Freedom:

“You just arrived. You’re late.
What took you so long? God help you
become victorious. I want to say hello
to Bush, to shake his hand. We came
out of the grave,” wept Aj ani
Saddoun Khlis as U.S. Marines liber-
ated his city of Safwan.

“Americans very good,” added
Ali Khemy. “Iraq wants to be free.”

The liberation of Iraq has begun
and the tragedy of America’s under-
taking is that we waited 12 years to
correct the mistake we
made in 1991. Around
the country, Iraqis are
greeting American

   
  

RIGHT OF THE AISLE
BRETT T. KIRWAN ‘O4

and sharing with them pictures of their
relatives who had been tortured and
killed by Saddam’s murderous regime.
Although ignorant protesters around
the world may not recognize it,
America’s invasion of Iraq is bring-
ing freedom to the Iraqi people.

In fact, several former human
shields who have returned ﬁom Iraq
have changed their tunes. Kenneth Jo-
seph, who recently returned to Jordan,
reports that his experience with actual
Iraqis has “shocked him back into real-
ity,” and that they “told (hirri) they
would oomniit suicide ifAnierican bomb-
ing didn’t start. They convinced (him)
that Saddam was a monster the likes of
which the world had not seen since
Stalin and Hitler.” Another writes in the
United Kingdom’s Sunday Telegraph
that he was told by a Baghdad taxi
driver, “Of course the Americans don’t
want to bomb civilians. We want
America to bomb Saddam.”

Our men and women in uniform
have been training specifically to
avoid civilian casualties and the
record so far has been one of unprec-
edented success. There are no— ab-
solutely zero— reports of consider-
able civilian casualties. Only Iraqi
State TV has accused coalition forces
of targeting schools, hospitals and
Iraq’s infrastructure.

Our purpose was highlighted
when the war began, not with a mas-
sive bombing campaign or a swift in-
vasion, but a surgical and limited strike
targeted at Saddam and other top lead-
ers. Truly, this is not a war against Iraq,
but a war against Saddam, his sons,
their cabal of cruelty and the depraved,
brutal regime they lead.

This war is a just war and one
that will hopefully be only the first
step in remaking a free, democratic,
secular Middle East. Moreover, a
former Middle Eastern prime minister
told UPI, “If the U.S. can get a new
Iraq to recognize Israel as a quid pro
quo for a final Palestinian settlement,
others will fall into place—— Syria,
Saudi Arabia, and the other Gulf
states. Iran would then have to pull
back its military support for
Hezbollah.”

Now that the liberation has be-

gun, one wonders what will happen
after the bullets stop ﬂying and
peace has ﬁnally come to Iraq after
24 years of Saddam’s rule?

 

“Bates.”
-Ricky Busby ‘05

“Pat Casey, a.k.a. P-Dolla.”

Firstly, the United States has
pledged that it will work closely with
the United Nations and non-govem-
mental organizations in post-war Iraq
to bring humanitarian to the belea-
guered nation as swiftly as possible.
The UN’s Oil for Food program will
be kept in place in the immediate fu-
ture to provide the Iraqi people with
the necessities of life.

Secondly, America has already
spent $76 million dollars on

prepositioning hu-

manitarian aid, di-
’ saster relief and refu-

gee assistance mate-

rial with an addi-
tional $170 million “in the pipeline.”
The government has already set
aside $90 million worth or over
121,000 tons of food.

Additionally, the government has
a strong and sensible plan to oversee
the rebuilding of Iraq and her transi-
tion to a stable, pro-Westem democ-
racy. Initially, Iraq will be run by the
U.S.  General Tommy Franks
is the commander of all forces in the
region and Lieutenant General Jay
Garner has been appointed the head
of the Pentagon’s Office of Recon-
struction and Humanitarian Assis-
tance. He is already in Qatar building
his team. Lieutenant General John
Abizaid, an Arabic—speaking graduate
of West Point, will be the top military
commander in Iraq.

Also, teams of ex-ambassadors
and other diplomats will oversee each
of Iraq’s ministries and will form a sort
of shadow government to run Iraq in
the interim. Michael Mobbs has been
appointed to oversee the creation of
a civilian government and Barbara
Bodine has been named as one of three
regional rulers.

Of course, the American govem-
mental apparatus that will control Iraq
after Saddam is defeated has the goal
of returning Iraq to the Iraqi people
as soon as possible. Immediately, an
Interim Iraqi Administration will be
created to assist the Americans and
begin the process of drafting a new
Constitution, freeing the schools, re-
building the nation’s infrastructure,
bringing the oil ﬁelds back to full ca-
pacity and increasing women’s rights.

The process will not be easy.
Iraq has no recent tradition of civil
government and there is no emperor
to lend authority to an American mili-
tary governor such as McArthur en-
joyed in Japan. Iran, Saudi Arabia,
Syria and other nations who are
threatened by the prospect of a free
Iraq will not support or assist America
or the Iraqi people in the rebuilding
effort. Minority groups in both the
north and the south of the country
may present serious challenges to the
territorial integrity of Iraq.

However, American ingenuity
and good governance combined with
the will of the Iraqi people to build a
free nation will bring about a demo-
cratic government worthy of the long-
suffering Iraqi people.

  
 

o COURTESY mun/faxnav.r.w/tr
GOODBYI-:.Major David Gurfein tears down a portrait of Saddam in Safwan.

-Drake Staniar ‘05

 

 

“Anyone but me.’ ’
-Elizabetli Falco ‘05

PAGE 3

Liberation or Invasion?

Beginning last Wednesday, missiles struck Baghdad and the invasion of Iraq began. Is this war justiﬁed or a power grab by oil interests?

Freedom comes to Iraq

  
   

PHOTO COIllll=5\ arrrgwrii

FIREPOWER. Soldiers assigned to the 377th Field Artillery Regiment prepare for the invasion of Iraq.

War’s effectiveness uncertain

War is wrong. But just because I feel this
way does not mean that I think the converse
action is appropriate, either. At the risk of sound-
ing horribly rhetorical, the question that befalls
us on this grave occasion is, which action is
less wrong: action or inaction?

Neither action is “right.” War is never “right.”
But recent events have shown us that Saddam
Hussein is not to be trusted. He
heads a truly brutal regime, and
the things President Bush made
mention of in his speech to the

 
 


NICK RAMSEY ‘O3

ﬂashy war graphics on the likes of CNN, Fox
News Channel, and MSNBC.

Our generation has not really seen a full-
scale conﬂict of this caliber in our lifetime. Our
nation has never seen a military campaign of this
magnitude in which we were the first to strike
ever in its history. The results remain to be seen.

The White House has dubbed this crusade
as Operation Iraqi Freedom.
Television news broadcasters
continually refer to this as “the
war to liberate Iraq.” God only

nation, e.g., torture chambers,
rape rooms, the cutting out of tongues, do exist.

However, is this really the full explanation
of this military campaign? I doubt it. The truth is
that, on the way to deliver their payload on the
cities of Iraq,’ British and American planes are
traveling through the airspace of another coun-
try where similar problems exist. The abuse and
rape of prisoners in custody, especially women,
is a widespread problem in Turkey.

Truly, at least two other things are at stake
in making sure Saddam Hussein is removed from
power. The first is the fact that this man does
clearly have weapons that were outlined as ille-
gal by the rulings of the United Nations Secu-
rity Council. The fact that Iraqi missiles have
been ﬁred at Kuwait proves this point.

The second of these unnamed motivations is
clearly the rich oil wells of the country. Halliburton,
the company formally run by Vice President Dick

- Cheney has already been named as one of the

companies that will rebuild oil wells destroyed by
this military campaign. The company will make a
large sum of money from this venture, just as it did
when it rebuilt these same oil wells following Op-
eration Desert Storm. You know what they say
about history repeating itself.

However, this is not the facet of the war
that I like to dwell on. It merely leaves me scratch-
ing my head.

I recently watched “The Rock” with my
housemates tonight and could not help but no-
tice something. The music in the movie was strik-
ingly similar to that I have been hearing with

    

“Saddam Hussein.”
-George Singeltary ‘O5

knows, and only time will tell. I
am hopeful that the end result of this campaign
will lead to a better life for the people of Iraq.
Hopeful, but not yet convinced.

But the fact is that we, in the protective
bubble that is Lexington, cannot even fathom
what life is like for the typical Iraqi. We cannot
understand the fear of the 5 million in Baghdad
that listen as the bombs fall around them. We
cannot know what it must feel like for the 24
million citizens of this Arab country to hear that
those dropping bombs on them feel they are
actually liberating them.

And who can blame them for doubting? So
much of what will follow this war is uncertain. The
only thing we can do is treat it with the reverence
it deserves. Flashy graphics and dramatic music
aside, there are only a few things we can do.

We can pray that our actions are indeed the
lesser of two wrongs. We can pray for the safety
of our soldiers and of the innocent civilians of this
nation who must be feeling a fear I doubt I will
ever know. It is a fear of living in a country that is
at the center of a worldwide conﬂict started by but
a few. It is a fear of not knowing what will become
of one’s nation or if they will live to see it.

So if you happen to be praying for the
safety of those ﬁghting in this war, please also
remember to say a few words for the people on
the other side who have so much more to lose
or gain than we do.

Operation Iraqi Freedom should not be
about the war, but the rebuilding of a broken
nation once the smoke has cleared.

 

    

“Dean Watkins.”

-Anonymous Dorm Counselor

 

  

MQNDAY,MARCH 24, 2003

OPINIONS

Protesters, Dems all wrong

This week, as America begins its
war with Iraq, President Bush will face
opposition on two fronts. Not only
will he encounter a spirited, although
probably unsophisticated, counterat—
tack from Saddam Hussein’s forces,
but he will also see considerable anti-
war contention, both at home and
abroad. Undoubtedly, this barrage of
opinion will consist largely of inap-
propriate protest.

Of course, loyal opposition to
war, regardless of its effect, benefits
the country as whole. It presents the
nation with an alternative, honest per-
spective to a conﬂict, which can re-
veal ﬂaws in motive or tactic and ben-
eﬁcially alter a war’s course or even
bring its run to an end. Most of the
opposition to the war in Iraq, how-
ever, is disloyal in motive or substance.

The Democratic politicians who
oppose America’s involvement in the
Middle East, for the most part, do so
in order to exploit an opportunity to
chip away at President Bush’s cred-
ibility and popularity. However, war
is the most inappropriate of situations
in which to seek a forum for political
advancement.

When politicians relentlessly at-
tack the leader of our country over a
conﬂict which, unless you oppose the
removal of an abominable, violent re-
gime, seems rightly initiated, it shows
not only disrespect or discourtesy but
disloyalty. Their beleaguering of such
a leader reveals nothing but selfish
ambitions of personal power and
demagogic methods of achieving
such ﬁlthy aspirations. It is always
the easier task to try to impugn the
advocate of an unprovoked war. Presi-
dent Bush and others who defend
America’s involvement demonstrate
not only bravery but keen foresight
for the positive consequences that
will come of this war.

Similarly, expressing distress for
the Iraqi people offers no more an ac-
ceptable an excuse for opposing the
war. With the exception of those per-
manently and universally opposed to
war in general, most of today’s liber-
als protest simply because it is the
most popular, safe, seemingly kind
route. They argue
that they oppose the
war in order to pr_,o—’ V
tect the safety ‘of ‘
Iraq’s civilians.

First of all, this conﬂict ultimately
intends to protect her citizens through
the removal of a dictator who ruth-
lessly and arbitrarily punishes his
subjects. Therefore, thwarting the war
effort in fact undermines their very
purpose for contradicting it.

Secondly, America’s military
trains with the sole purpose of injur-
ing as few of civilians as possible,

 
 

nmnanmwm

ARSENAL or DEMOCRACY. Two thousand pound joint Directional Attack Munitions
GDAM’s) are lifted up to the ﬂight deck of the USS Harry Truman in preparation
for bombing sorties in the opening days of Operation Iraqi Freedom.

and, despite the recent sensational-
ized arguments otherwise, it has done
so in modern years. So often today,
famous artists stand against the war.
Often they oppose it simply in hopes

of gaining notoriety
advocating
peace. This igno-

,.DQE1:l¥_li;l1}ll£§:Q§_......._._  seems as 

pugnant as protest-
ing the war due to ulterior political mo-
tives.

Finally, there are those who op-
pose the war because of the belief that
the United Nations is the authority
that should be disarming Iraq. While
those who oppose the U.S. and coali-
tion efforts on this basis have good
motives, they are naive. The United
Nations has had more than a decade

to force disarmament. It has become
clear that there will be only one way
to manage the problem of Saddam
Hussein.

Other countries, despite their at-
tempts to make it seem as though they
have some ideological qualm with war
in Iraq, oppose the war simply be-
cause it is a difﬁcult, dangerous, ex-
pensive task. They understand the
imminent threats poised by Hussein’s
regime and they realize that, at some
point, his government must be
toppled for the safety of the world.
But they would rather America risk its
men, its resources, and its reputation
to get the job done for order. Fortu-
nately for these countries and the
world, some nations are willing to ex-
pend the effort necessary for peace.

crowd.”

CORRECTIONS from Issue 23, March 17, 2003

The bylines of “W&L will host race conference” and “Meeting draws crowd” were incorrect. Megan
Morgan is the author of “W&L will host race conference” and Kyle Wass is the author of “Meeting draws

Che Guevara’s last name was rriisspelled in “Tasteless campaign poster brings porn to campus.”

 

Do you have opinions?

Do you want everybody know what they are?
Do you want to be an editor next year?

If so, the Phi Opinions section is the place for you!

Contact Editor Brett T. Kirwan at X5129 or kirwanb @ wlu.edu.

 

E

H! II-TU“. IITIUJ I. lI'f’l.-II-

DIXIE DIVAS

BOUTIQUE

I07 .El.lieWood Ave.

 

Winter Madness Sale

ﬁﬂfsr’ Jon:/Joe’ juicy Couturev
BCBG" '

“Cl"l.r\.i‘3CiIN(§ C i""lz’\Rl.,OTTl.:.S\"l l..I..E ONE. DRESS AT A TIME!’
On the UVA Corner

 

 

245-2217

There are now quite literally
bombs over Baghdad, and it appears
that “Iraqi dictator” may be the most
endangered species on the planet, if
not already extinct. It seems that “UN
Diplomat” may not be far behind.

The early stages of this war
have proved the perilous position
not only of the Iraqi dictator, but also
of the United Nations. Its obstinacy
in refusing to enforce their own reso-
lutions smacks of hypocrisy and
fecklessness. Saddam was in “mate-
rial breach”— as defined by the
United Nations— of Resolution
1441, yet, because of the personal
motivations of a few countries, the
diplomats did what diplomats do—
talk, and above all, avoid action.
These “fearless diplomats” were led
by none other than the French, who
couldn’t ﬁght their way out of a pa-
per bag. I mean, you know how you
can identify a French tank, right? It
only goes in reverse.

Ironically, France’s determina-
tion to stand in the coalition’s way at
the diplomatic table may have proved
France’s irrelevance. France used its
veto power to force the United States
from leading the war with the UN’s
blessing, but the United States and
its coalition partners will still accom-

plish its goal of ridding the world of
Saddam Hussein.

In the end, the only thing
France proved was that it has no
justiﬁcation for its status as a Secu-
rity Council permanent member.
They can complain about the United
States all they want, but, in the end,
our government
will not be cowed
into foregoing the
maintenance of its
safety to satisfy a
European also-ran suffering from an
attack of jealousy. France has
proved that diplomacy is only ef-
fective as the sheath for the sword.

A couple of weeks ago, I wrote
that the United Nations diplomats
faced a test: they could enforce their
own mandate (by forcing Saddam to
disarm) "or face the fact that the only
things diplomats were good at is
double—parking. Despite the United
Nation’s initial opposition, America
and its allies seem poised to give the
United Nations another chance by
building a UN—lead coalition to re-
build post—war Iraq.

The UN has been offered a sec-
ond chance at redemption; unfor-
tunately, early signs suggest they
will be following the old adage, “the

 
 

PAGE 4;

United Nations commits suicide

only second chance in life is the 0

chance to make the same mistake
twice.” Predictably, our old friends,
the French, are promising to veto any
plan that includes a United States or
British team leading the humanitar-
ian effort.

Jacques Chirac claims that not -
doing so would be to if

RIGHT ON!
ioHN HEATH ‘O4

justify the war after
the fact.

All the .
needed justification?

for war, comes when .-
one looks at the Scud missiles the 3

Iraqi forces ﬁred at the coalition-led

troops last week. According to the 4

UN weapons inspectors, those mis-
siles were to have been destroyed.

The United Nations has proved
a total failure in the Iraq crisis. If the
member nations carmot stomach the
courage to stand up to a schoolyard
bully, who, by the way, can’t back up
his rhetoric, then the Untied States
has no reason to continue to support
the diplomatic black hole. Ifyou need
further proof of the UN’s current lu-
nacy, look no further than the incom-
ing chair of its disarmament comniit—
tee— Iraq.

Hopefully, the world will begin
to understand that the UN couldn’t

‘I
i

Letters to the Editor

Peace cranes not anti-war

Dear Editor, ,

Has the Phi ventured so far to the Right these days
that reality and research count for less than whatever
happens to be on the prejudiced editorial staff ’s mind
at the moment? I’m referring to the Staff Editorial in last
week’s (March 17) issue.

Had the editorial staff bothered to actually talk to
Professors Ujie or Ikeda, they might have discovered
that asking students to fold origami cranes was not an
anti-war statement, but a pro—peace statement. This is
not a difficult distinction.

The arrogance and inﬂexibility of thinking dis-
played in your staff editorial is the reason most of the
nations of this world choose not to support our inva-
sion Iraq; it is what makes the world believe we are the
terrorists. If they are right, and we truly are a nation
against peace, then count me out of this war and of this
country.

Sincerely,
David Hicks ‘03

Peace cranes appropriate political statement

DearEditor,

The Staff Editorial of March 17 criticized the
W&L Japanese Professors Ikeda and Ujie for pub-
licly expressing controversial views as a Depart-
ment, and labelled their action “academic irrespon-
sibility.” I disagree with this editorial because the
facts are distorted and because it shows a poor un-
derstanding of academic responsibility.

The editorial accuses the professors of “ac—
tively pressing” the students “by asking them to
participate in this activity.” What the professors
did was merely to call attention to the project; the
students were never forced to fold a crane. They
had the freedom not to participate, and there was
no threat posed on their grades for doing so.

Suppose this was a political statement of the
Japanese language and literature faculty, express-
ing opposition to the government’s standing on war.
Should faculty members refrain from publicizing their
political views? Is this “academic irresponsibility?”

I do not believe that faculty members violate
their responsibilities by expressing their political
views in public, whether controversial or not. If a
politics professor publishes a book on one issue or
another, isn’t this what he or she is doing? ‘Open
discussion is critical, not just from the viewpoint of
freedom of speech, but also for Washington and
Lee as a liberal arts university. One of the advan-
tages of a liberal arts education is that one is ex-
posed to various perspectives. Even if the profes-
sors’ expertise is “far removed from the issue at
hand,” as the editorial phrases it, I do not see this
as a reason to refrain from displaying opinions on
peace. Peace is a concern for us all; there is no lay
or expert on this subject.

Sincerely,
Junko Kannami -Exchange

Japanese prof.’s unfairly maligned

Dear Editor,

I am writing in response to the staff editorial in the
March 17 issue regarding the origami peace cranes. I am
the primary student who helped plan this activity. While
I could potentially comment on almost every remark made
in the editorial, I believe most rational persons are per-
fectly capable of fomiing their own opinion regarding most
of the arguments presented by the author. There are a few
issues I would like to address directly, however.

First of all, I believe the author has misconstrued this
activity as an anti-war statement. We are not “mounting a
politically—charged campaign in opposition to the libera-
tion of Iraq.” The origami crane is a universal symbol for
world peace. I take offense to the claim that we are arbi-
trarily assigning a Japanese cultural practice to “contro-
versial politics.” I wonder at the logic of transforming the
phrase “world peace” into an “unmistakably political opin-

even govern a banana republic.

ion.” Are we not all for world peace—pro—war and anti-
war alike? I would imagine that there are very few, if any,
individuals in this community who oppose the concept of
world peace. All sides want eventual peace——those who
support the war, those who oppose it, and everyone in
between. The argument comes down to a matter of the
method. Folding origami cranes is a Japanese cultural
activity that has always encouraged the folder to wish for
a peaceful world. We thought it was a rather relevant
cultural activity considering the time and wanted to ex-
tend an invitation to the university community should
they have a desire to participate. For one person, folding

a crane may be his way of protesting the war. For another,‘

it may be in support of the peace that she believes this war
will bring. The political statement that each individual
may attach to the crane is not justification for the author’s"
criticisms. ‘
The author states that it is “wrong and ill—considered:
for any department. . .to display its opinions so publicly.”
An invitation to fold origami cranes does not express any
opinion with regard to the Japanese program (no “Japa-
nese Department” exists at Washington and Lee). Fur—i
therrnore, it is erroneous for the author to make assump-

tions as to either my stance on the war or the individual ~

stances of the Japanese language and literature profes-
sors. I have no knowledge of either Professor Ikeda of
Professor Ujie’s personal opinions on the war with Iraq on
any other political leanings, and I have taken practically
every class that they teach. This leads me to the aspect of
the editorial that angered me the most. 1

Thus far I have argued against the author’s claims‘
that the cranes are a political statement, but the author’s’

objections go beyond the activity itself. Finally, and per— .

haps most importantly, I am upset that the author felt the
need to attack the Japanese program and its professors so
maliciously and unjustly. I am the person who has sub-
mitted all of the campus notices regarding the cranes. All
notices stated “students of Japanese language and cul-
ture” were inviting the community to take part in this ac-
tivity. As the only person who has publicly attached her
name to the cranes, I would have been more than happy to,

discuss any concerns the author or anyone else had about ,

the way the event was presented. I was not aware that I_
needed to attach a disclaimer to every poster and campus
notice. I am sure had the author felt the desire to talk to
the professors directly about his or her concerns, both
would have been extremely open to suggestions. I am
saddened that instead we were all made aware of the
author’s discomfort only through an editorial.

Sincerely,

Jaime Muscar ‘04

The Phi responds:
Our StaffEditorial did not insult Professors Ujie
or Ikeda.It is our position that academic departments

have a responsibility to be neutral to students in mat- ‘

ters of opinion and should never support a contro-
versial opinion, however tangentially.

Lackmann letter should not have been printed

Dear Editors,

I write in response to your decision to print—
and your chosen headline for—Jack “Jackie”
Lackmann’s letter in the March 17, 2003, issue.

Your decision to print such an inarticulate letter
was a poor one. Lackmann’s letter lacks comments
that start or further communal dialogue; his incoher-

ence brings him, and this institution at large, little l

credit.

More seriously, I criticize your choice of head-
line. “Alumnus blames war on Jews” is in my mind
clearly inﬂammatory. Lackmann covers at least four
topics (most of them of interest only to himself). For
you to foreground his weak comments linking “weap-
ons of mass destruction,” “misunderstanding of Is-
lamic mentality and motive,” and his “freres” betrays
a lack of critical judgment. 

In the future, I hope you use your positions as
editors of a Washington and Lee publication to pro-
mote loftier goals than recent issues suggest.
Sincerely,

Sarah Wilson

‘I’

 

    

CAIHHRINEC.GuY
ARIS&l.IPEEDIIOR

V EMAlI.'GUY(@WIlIEDU
MONDAY, MARCH 24, 2003

i& LIFE

PAGE 5

I ‘Senior Meriggi distinguishes himself as unsung hero of Lenfest

He’s the unsung hero of Lenfest - the phantom

Vbehind the scenes, the silent conductor of the

5!

orchestra, the producer of endless possibility. He
takes what would appear to be a seemingly
impossible task and, with style, ease and finesse,
places it within the grasp of W&L’s Theater
Department. He is the driving force that makes
everything in the arts happen, and his name is Jeff
Meriggi.

Meriggi, a senior history major and dorm

\y' counselor, devotes his entire heart and soul to our

school’s fine theater department. His efforts include
all aspects of theater life: planning, organizing, and
funding new social events, gaining support from
the community at large through outreach and public
relations, building sets, assisting in the cooking for
the gourmet receptions, and designing
commemorative T-shirts for various programs and
productions. But his greatest success has been,
undoubtedly, his

work in Public
Relations. From ONTHEARTS
SP°“S°”“g 3 AURA LEIGH BIRDIX/ELL‘03

luncheon at the

‘ Sheridan Livery

with the help of his fellow Chi Psi brothers to
spreading the word around Graham-Lees and the
quad, Meriggi’s efforts, with the aid of Tom
Anderson, have significantly increased student
interest and attendance as well as the success of
productions. M

Anderson, who acts as Meriggi’s advisor, is the
assiduous, devoted and hard-working theater staff

‘V member who, according to Meriggi, seriously

“deserves a raise” for all he does for the theater
department. “He ‘has guided me the entire way, by
consistently offering me his opinions on what would

N or would not work.” The two work hand-in-hand and

together, making the productions at Lenfest possible
and professional. The two have grown to be good
friends.

Theater is Meriggi’s passion, and his efforts are

I for no other reason than the pursuit of his dream. “I

love to attend theater and I am involved because I enjoy

it.” He relates it to athletics and emphasizes the amazing 4

and beneﬁcial effects that student attendance has on
an actor’s performance. Seeing one’s peers in the
audience of one’s performance enhances the acting
experience and intensifies the moment. Meriggi
recognizes this and therefore dedicates much of his
efforts to filling in the seats and selling out the

Q’ performance.

Yet Meriggi does express one serious concern in
regards to his efforts. This is the issue of the lack of
much—needed pesos. Because of Meriggi’s

V overwhelmingly successful efforts in boosting the

toward success, Meriggi does not falter. He founded
the student organization “Theatre Outreach,” as
well as increased his lobbying to the Executive
Committee and Director of Student Activities. Along
with all ofthis, he also often sober drives to garner
more theater funding. “One of my long-term goals is
that W&L will recognize the theatre as an enjoyable
non—alcoholic activity that provides a respite from
the rigors of academic life.” He adds, “The
Department should receive more funding from the
administration.”

In an earlier column of mine, I mentioned a certain
incident that occured here three years ago when a
senior expressed his feelings of pessimism about the
production of musicals at W&L. I think I can justly
assert that he would be in complete disbelief at how
far the Theater Department has grown in these recent
years, in support and attendance, as well as the
quality and type of productions. Yet it was not
necessarily because of an a suddeniandidramatic
increase in the interest or talent of the newly
matriculated students. Quite on the contrary, these
two characteristics have probably always existed here
within the W&L community - they were just waiting
to be discovered. I feel sorry for that senior three
years ago - he truly missed out on Jeff Meriggi, who
has found, reconized and tapped the potential for
interest and talent here at W&L and brought the
theater department new respect, prominence, and
popularity.

LENFEsr’s UNSUNG HERO IN THE
ACT: Jeff Meriggi has done an
enormous amount for the theatre
department here at W&L. He is
shown here (left) with his theatrical
advisor Tom Anderson while they
are both involved in theatrical
construction. The two have
worked together closely since
]eff’s matriculation here. Seen
below is a Parent’s Weekend
beneﬁt held at Lenfest, which was
organized by Meriggi in an
attempt to gain money and
support from parents as well as
the rest of the W&L community.
Lenfest, the theatre departrnent,
and Washington and Lee
University as a whole will surely
miss Jeff when he graduates this
June.

B011-I rHmr)s<r>oIzI‘HsYt>F]IzH=MI:kIccI

Class: Through God’s grace

‘'5 amount of student attendance, the Theater
Department has actually lost money with its recent
productions.

How is this possible? When the students attend

..- for free, the Theatre Department loses revenue they
would have gained from selling tickets to the many
interested people in the community of Lexington at
large.

V Though this is a burdensome bump in the path

,1.

As a freshman, I couldn’t remember, so that you do not allow
believe how unlucky I was. The yourself to‘ fall into the abyss of
school year was nearing an end, but spring term depression.

if I realized, to my horror, that I would
not be through with exams until the and the blessing of the University
first weekend of June. All my Registrar, it is perfectly legal to take
friends at Marshall and WVU were only one class during spring term.

V home for the summer, while I was Only three credit hours are

still rotting away in the drabness of
Leybum or in the stuffy chambers
of Newcomb Hall. The thought
seemed unbearable. Why did I

f have to be in school for so much

V What’s the point of

longer? How was I going to get a
summer job when every other
college student was already back
working at home?

  

trimesters anyway?
Why can’t W&L be
like the other

, 1,, schools?

All of these questions were left
ringing in my frustrated mind. And
then I experienced my ﬁrst spring
term.

‘‘ For a school in the middle of

nowhere, W&L sure keeps us busy.
In the fall term, its Rush, Rush, Rush.
Then in the winter term, it’s the many

X joys of pledgeship and the build up

to Fancy Dress. By the time all that’s
all over, it’s on to worrying about
ﬁnals again. But, at the end of it all,
we reach the proverbial light at the

"7 end of the tunnel - the joys of Spring

Term
For six glorious weeks, we
ﬁnally are given the opportunity to

V. truly enjoy the place where we spend

the best years of our lives. Six
months of stress are forgotten in
favor of six weeks of relaxation and
fun. But in order to properly enjoy

'7, your spring term experience, there are

a couple of things you should

required. Use this privilege wisely.
I certainly recommend taking only
one class ifit’s within your means,
but just as a warning— having only
one class seems to correlate with a
general loss of motivation. Ask me,
I know.
Goshen: It’s peaceful, beautiful,
and reminds me of
beloved

.................................................................. .. my
ABSOLUTE FRATLORD boondocks back in
TIM SMITH ‘04

W.V. And it
shouldn’t be
missed. Just about any excuse can
be used to justify a Goshen trip. You
want a nice place to study. Or you
don’t have anything to study and
just want a nice place to relax. Or
you want to get wet. Or you want to
see Kappas in their bathing suits.
No matter the reason, Goshen is a
wonderful place to visit, and you
should go as much as possible.
Alumni Weekend: Iused to think
it would be the most boring weekend
of the year. But rest assured, some
alumni are even crazier than current
students, so the potential for
ridiculous fun is high. If you can
overcome the challenge of having a
drunken conversation with someone
from your fraternity who is 20 years
older than you, then you’re certainly
doing something right. '
Intramurals: Spring term
represents the climax of a long and
intense intramural year, and the ﬁnal
events are nothing to pass off.

Spring term provides light at end of tunnel

Softball is an annual classic. The
turkey trot brings individual
competition to its apex. And of
course, ultimate frisbee intramurals is
as good as it gets— and to all you
fraternities hoping to beat Lambda Chi
this year, keep practicing.

Road Trips: A key for spring term
scheduling is to leave yourself those
long weekends primed for road trips.
By playing your cards right, you can
have no class from Thursday to
Tuesday, leaving yourself 4 full days

to drive wherever your heart desires. .

In a classic spring term weekend, the
fabled Mr. Denbow and I took the
poop truck to Baltimore, catching an
Orioles game and eating crabs with
some random Denbow relatives. And
though my truck leaked about eight
quarts of oil during the trip, there was
much fun to be had.

Daily Irresponsibilities: All of
these things listed are fun in their own
right, but perhaps the greatest aspect
of spring term is the unlimited freedom
to do whatever you want. Unless
you’ve been cursed with tons of work,
you usually ﬁnd yourself with plenty
of time to kill. Throw a baseball. Have
a beer. Go watch Java in the Quad
(especially when Drunken Rusty
plays). The potential is there‘ its
your job to maximize it.

Spring term is not without its
cons. Inevitably, there are some
gloomy students who would rather be
home instead of living it up in Lex
Vegas until summer is in full swing.
But for the majority of us, going home
simply makes us want to be at school,
with our friends and our freedoms.
And, without a doubt, going home
makes us realize how glorious spring
term really is, and how much we look
forward to doing it all over again.

Film Society shows acclaimed drama

Hrrr. www.oNrnoN.coM Auaurs AIBHMOZ AM.jP(3

ONE DAY TO LIVE: Edward Norton plays a convicted drug dealer with 24 hours to get his life in order in Spike Lee’s 25th Hour.

FROM STAFF REPORTS

The Washington and Lee Film Society will present
the acclaimed drama 25TH HOUR (USA, 2002), directed
by Spike Lee. .

Screeningswill be at 7:30 PM on Friday and Saturday,

March 28 and 29, in the Troubadour Cinema. There is no '

charge for admission, but contributions are welcome. The
ﬁlm is rated “R” for violence, sexual references, profanity,
and drug use.

Adapted by David Benioff from his novel, this is an
elegiac account of the last day of freedom for a convicted
drug-dealer in contemporary New York City. Edward
Norton is superb as a man who has 24 hours to say
goodbye to his father, his girlfriend, his best friends, and
his dog, to ﬁnd out who betrayed him, and to regret his

own greed.

Set against the background of post-9/ 11 New
York, the ﬁlm is beautifully photographed (by the
cinematographer of F rida and Amores Perros), set to
a score by Terence Blanchard, and features a
marvelous cast, including Philip Symour Hoffman,
Brian Cox, Anna Paquin, Rosario Dawson, and Barry
Pepper.

Critics have lauded the f1lrn’s sense of atmosphere,
and A.O. Scott wrote in the New York Times that “Mr.
Lee approaches the overwhehning reality with sensitivity
and tact. His model, unlikely as it may seem, could be
‘The Rising,’ the Bruce Springsteen album that supplies
a song for the closing credits. An arnbience of sturmed
grief and a slightly giddy, slightly guilty feeling of
survival ﬂoat through the ﬁlm.”

 

 



&LIFE
ere in the world 1S Presi

  

lAoNDAY,lJ0VEMBER 18,2002

dent Burish? p

PRESIDENT BURISH TAKES OVER THE WORLD! President Burish is in the process of a whirlwind tour of the
United States with goals of increasing W&L’s financial merit as well as national acclaim. All information is

INFOGMPHIC BY KATE ow ANDJEB BROOKS / THE KlNG—lUM PHI

courtesy of Matthew McDermott (contributing editor for the R.ing—tum Phi) and Betsy Cossaboon (Executive
Secretary to the President). Stay tuned for further updates as Burish’s adventures throughout America continue.

BY CATHERINE C. GUY
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

President Burish has embarked on a
nationwide tour ever since his arrival at W&L
this fall. He has visited 29 cities since August,
some of which he has been to more than once.

His aims on these excursions have
been manifold. The original idea behind
these trips was fundraising, but it has
evolved signiﬁcantly since the beginning.

While on the road, President Burish
spends the majority of his time addressing
and meeting with local alumni chapters in
the various cities.

Burish has also met with several of the
school’s larger donors to discuss plans for
Washington and Lee’s present and ﬁiture.
These meetings have been mutually

beneﬁcial, as they have provided Burish
with feedback from those with a love and
allegiance for the school while providing
the alumni with connections to the school
and an opportunity to stay active in
University affairs.

Interestingly, while in Chicago,
Burish was interviewed by the Chicago
Tribune. The interview occurred as a
result of his participation in a
conference.

Overall, by untertaking in these
voyages, Burish has been working hard to
garner publicity for school. By increasing
national awareness, affairs here at W&L
can only improve.

Contributing Editor Matt McDermott
and Betsy Cossaboon, Executive Secretary
to the President, contributed to this report.

President Burish’s Travel Schedule Charlottesville, VA Atlanta, GA
August 2002 through April 2003 Dallas, TX
February 2003-
Burish began in August 2002 in.... November 2002- Chicago, IL
A Washington, DC San Diego
New York Los Angeles March 2003- the current excursions...
San Francisco Tuscaloosa, AL
September 2002- New York San Antonio, TX

Roanoke,VA Dallas, TX Sweet Briar, VA

Portland, OR Greensboro, NC

New York, NY December 2 002- Winston-Salem, NC

Tampa, FL Chattanooga, TN

Charlotte, NC Boston, MA April 2003-coming up in the near
Richmond, VA Washington, DC future...

Memphis, TN Charleston, WV
October 2002- Hampden-Sydney, VA Houston, TX

Birmingham,AL Louisville, KY

Washington, DC January 2003- Honolulu, HI

Hot Springs, VA Atlanta, GA Roanoke, VA

Atlanta, GA New York, NY

BY KATE GUY
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

Washington and Lee’s theatre
department will be presenting one
of its most popular and
entertaining events of the year this
coming week. That’s right, the
One Acts will be performed once
again.

The One Acts have played a
crucial role since the l970’s, when
W&L first got its now strong theatre
department.

This years productions include
the following; “Zoo Story”, written
by Edward Albee and directed by
senior Neal Willets, “Black
Comedy”, written by Peter Shafer
and directed by senior Emily Pace,
“Who Made Robert DeNiro King of
America?”, by Jason Katims and
directed by senior Kris Pollina, “The
Most Massive Woman Wins” by
Madeleine George and directed by
senior Bart Peters, and “Paper
Flowers” directed by junior Annie
Estrada.

The plays will be performed
this coming weekend, and will be
split into two separate bills. Bill

A, which is composed of “Who
Made Robert DeNiro King of
America?”, “Most Massive
Woman Wins”, and “Black
Comedy”, will be performed on
Thursday at 8, Saturday at 2, and
Monday at 8. Bill B, which is
composed of “Paper Flowers” and
“Zoo Story”, will be performed on
Friday at 8, Sunday at 2, and
Tuesday at 9. The bill was split
because if all ﬁve were performed
at once, “it would have been way
too long’,’, says senior director
Neal Willetts. The two bills are
each at least two hours in length,
and the directors decided that
splitting would be more beneﬁcial
in gaining student response.
This year, students can look
forward to an entertaining and
complex mix. There will be a great
mix of comedy, farce, slapstick, and
drama. “We have a little bit of
everything,” says Willetts. This
idea of a mix also extends to the
students involved in the
productions. This year’s actors
include everyone from senior
Theatre majors to freshmen with
little or no acting experience. There
will be student involvement from all

walks of campus life.

The students involved have
put in an enormous amount of effort
throughout the moths leading up to
this week. The Directors have been
preparing for this weekend since the
beginning of the school year, as the
Directing class that they are all
enrolled in is a two semester course.
They have been planning and
preparing for this since September.
The Directors held auditions before
Feb. break, and have been
rehearsing since. The actors and
directors receive a tremendous
amount of help from other classes
in the design department,
particularly the lighting and
costume design classes, both of
which have been preparing all
semester. In all, a lot of people have
done a lot of work to make the One
Acts wonderful.

Willetts says that, as a director,
he is most looking forward to
seeing the initial reaction of the
crowd on opening night. He is
anticipating seeing the audience
response to characters, blocking,
and dialogue.

This year will be unique in a
number of respects. For one thing,

One Acts will once again enthrall crowds

four of the ﬁve directors are new to
the directing capacity and thus are
extremely excited and enthusiastic
about their directorial debut. Many
of the actors are making their debut
on the stage as well. Also, the One
Acts this year will encompass “a
broad spectrum of issues all at
once,” says Willetts. “Most
Massive Woman Wins” deals with
the issues of body and self image
in women and society, while “Zoo
Story” addresses relationships and
“Paper Flowers” examines social
class.

The One Acts have had a
notoriously strong student
turnout and response for years,
as a result of the widely varied and
massive amount of student
involvement. Willetts feels certain
that each of the night
performances will come close to
selling out, if they do not sell out
completely. There are no tickets
required to see the One Acts, and
the performances are free for all
who are affiliated with the
Washington and Lee community.

So come out and support the
One Acts. You will certainly enjoy
It.

Pulitzer winner lectures

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Pulitzer Prize-winning writer
Alice Steinbach will deliver a lecture
entitled “A Short Guide to An
Interesting Life” on Wednesday,
March 26, at 7 :30 p.m. in Lee Chapel.
The lecture is free and open to the

Living Ertmp

or 463-9180

HOUSE FOR RENT
6 Tucker Street
3 BR/1 Bath
Large Kitchen,
Washer/Dryer,
Large Eeekyanﬂ w/ Eeck
$800/mo.
Call 458-5001,

(Please note:
Phone numbers have changed
since the last issue.)

public.

In a recent Booklist review,
Joanne Wilkinson said of Steinbach
“Like any skillful writer, she can make
you laugh, and she can make you cry,
and she sometimes does both, all
within the limitations of a column
fonnat.”

458-7157,
for details

 

   

 

 

PAGE 7

1,)

‘ll-El’.l3.E{(r'l‘=.?.tl‘l<Il

 

SPORTS

Track teams run
in Roanoke Invitational

BY MARY CHRISTOPHER
V SPORTS WRITER

At 7:00 Saturday morning the
Generals were off again, clad in their
blue warm-ups, ready to compete
in the Roanoke Invitational. The
weather was nice, which resulted
in enthusiasm,
but caution of

pwver-heating
and lack of hy-
dration. Under
the advice of
their coaches

Vthe team re-
mained under a
small grey tent
throughout the

‘(course of the
day and fo-
cused on their
goals for the
day.

‘’ The women
had strong per-
formances, as
usual. This in-

*vitational was a
testing opportunity for many of the
runners who competed in events
they do not typically run but were
anxious to try.

“IT he day started off with two brave
individuals willing to conquer the
10k, a 6-rnile race
on the track.
Well, their moti-

‘( .
vatron and de-
sire to achieve
resulted in a
third and fourth

Yplace ﬁnish for

Jessica Remmert

and Samantha

Snabes, finish-

ing at 44.58.94

‘the 5k, a very difﬁcult race! Frayer
ﬁnished ﬁfth with an outstanding
time of 20.07 and Christopher ﬁn-
ished tenth with a time of

—42l.28,Brown and Williamson also

showed strong performances with
twelfth and fourteenth place fin-
ishes.

Liz Twentyman, an 800-meter
runner, ran the 1,500 for the Gener-
als with a time of 5.48.74, a ninth
place finish. For the sprinting
events, Meredith Walker ran her
3200 in 28.87 giving her ninth place

and Kim Gunst ﬁnished ﬁfteenth
with her time of 29.76. Kim also ran
the 400m in 1.05.48, resulting in her
twelfth place ﬁnish for the event.

V

7 The Generals also competed in

several relays. The Distance Med-
ley Relay won ﬁrst place, due to
the strong performances of Erin
Johnson, Casey Sharpe, Liz
Twentyman, and a heroic finish
from Megan Ward. The 4 by 100m

   
   

RUSTY MEYER. Meyer ﬁnished with a
season personal record

relay team also performed well, giv-
ing them a seventh place ﬁnish.

The men also showed their
strengths on the sunny day at
Roanoke College. In the 100-meter
dash Brian Krupcak, Jonathan Brimer,
and Lee Stinnett all qualiﬁed for the
ﬁnals with times of 1 1.37, 11.55, and
11.86. In the ﬁ-
nals, Krupcak
won second
place with
Brimer in sixth
and Stinnett not
far behind in
eighth. In the
200-meter dash,
Brian had an-
other strong
race which re-
sulted in first
place with atime
of 22.72. Brimer
and Stinnett
also fought hard
earning them
fourth and ninth,
with times of
23.42 and 24.11
respectively.

In the 800-meter dash Norman
Senior, in his ﬁrst race of the season,
ran a 2.10.1 1, and Matt Reilly ﬁnished
with a time of2. 10.85. In the 1,500
Rusty Meyer had his head, and legs,
in the race giv-
ing him third
place with a sea-
son personal
record of
4.15.81.

A n 0 th e r
distance runner,
A n d 1' e w
Johnson, who
typically runs
the 1,500, had an

‘and 45.42.66. excellent 5,000m
Later on in runwithatime of
the day Betsey 16.34.40, athird
Frayer, Mary place ﬁnish.
'{Christopher, -  ammo." A The field
Ashley Brown, ERIN ]0I~{NSON.]ohns0n helped to Win competitors also
and Sarah the Distance Ledley in Saturday’s competedwellin
WI 1 l a m s o n Invitational. a variety of
fought through events. In the

shot put Emily Barker and Audrey
Walker earned ﬁﬁh and ninth place for
the women and Chris Walker received
eighth for the men.

In the women’s long jump
Meredith Walker won ﬁrst place. For
the men, Chris Sullivan also won ﬁrst
with Brian Krupczak receiving second,
it was a great day for the jumpers!

In the Javelin throw Sullivan
placed seventh and Gallagher eighth.
For the women J av throwers, Bethany
Dannelly placed third and Barker
placed sixth. Barker also performed well
in the Discus throw, earning her a sev-
enth place ﬁnish. High jump competi-
tor Angel Daniels won ﬁfth place for
her jump of 41’: 8inches.

The Generals once again showed
off their hard work in their strong per-
formances. And several members were
fortunate enough, like senior Sullivan,
to take home a “running crayon” T-
shirt to remind them of their hard work
at the Roanoke Invitational!

  

MONDAY, MARCH 24, 2003

Equestrian team wins Virginia Invitational, first win ever

W&L beats eight other teams to come out on top, sends several riders to Regiona/s on Saturday

BY ERIN JULIUS
SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee’s Eques-
trian team competed in the UVA In-
vitational last Friday. The team beat
every team in the region to take home
the championship ribbon. Hollins
came in second, three points behind
W&L while UVA dropped two
points behind Hollins to take third.

Considering the competition,
W&L turned in some very strong
performances.

Kathy Wang, ’05, took fourth
place in the Walk’Trot, Captain Sa-
rah Michaels, ’04, too second
place in the Novice Flat and third
place in Novice Over Fences. Cap-
tain Heather Lancaster, ’03, took
fourth place in Intermediate Over
Fences.

Two freshmen turned ir1 outstand-
ing ﬁrst-place ﬁnishes. Natalia Max-
well placed ﬁrst in Advanced Walk/

Trot/Canter. CaitlinLanetookﬁrstinOpen
Flat and in Open Over Fences.

Maxwell and Lane qualiﬁed for
Regionals.

Randolph-Macon Woman’s Col-
lege, Lynchburg, Bridgewater,
Radford, Longwood and James Madi-
son University all made appearances
at the UVA Invitational.

This Invitational victory marks the
ﬁrst time in W&L Equestrian history
that the team has officially won a com-
petition. UVA’s Invitational has al-
ways been very selective, as only the
“ int riders” or very best riders at each
school are allowed to compete.

It’s a, “very difficult region,” said
team member Sarah Murray, “It’s an
incredible accomplishment for the
team that at this show, we won our
ﬁrst championship and took home the
High Point Rider award”.

“We’re such a young team. . .to
be winning is wonderful for us,” said
Murray.

I=Hon>a>tRrEsvoEc-uniNIA\tE
HIGH JUMP. Open Rider Caitlin Lane won the High Point Rider Award at the UVA Invitational on Saturday and earned two first places at the Oak Ridge Medal earlier this year.

PHOTO RIEWOFC*.Tl*lY\)l’AN(3

RIDING TEAM.(back row) junior Sarah Michaels, senior Liza Tucker, freshman Caitlin
Lane, freshman Natalia Maxwell, senior eather Lancaster, freshman Sarah Murray,
Coach Carolyn Hedrick—\X/illiams. (front row) Sophomore Kathy Wang, Karly

Williams.

Participate in trivia tourney to help Hospice

The Washington and Lee Law
class of 2005 will be hosting a cam-
pus-wide Sports Trivia Tournament
called “The General’s Cup” from
April 1-3. Proceeds from the entry
fees will be benefiting the

Rockbridge Hospice.

Two people can enter the The
General’s Cup for $10. The win-
ning team will receive a prize pack-
age worth more than $200. The
package will include gift certiﬁ-

cates to the Sheridan Livery, ll
Pallazzo, University Sportwear,
Pete’s BBQ, Frank’s, Salerno’s,
City Subs & Steaks, Main St. Mar-
ket and a music store.

All students are encouraged

to participate in this fun event, rais-
ing money for a worthy cause.
West Virginia University held a tour-
nament similar to this last year and
was able to get more than 100 stu-
dents involved.

Vote Samantha Snabes for unsung General!

 

 

 

‘    
an a new Scooter 
*     
sew .ti:agne_t¥a Awe
aauma  Va. zu.-re
.,   rmarzemaaa
  ma  Atoms: or
,, arm: an ‘E6 to mum
mhtuwaww‘
‘I
V Looking for something bigger?
3 Check out the new Alpha 250
V- Twin

Men’s tennis loses its first match, Men’s
lax falls to Roanoke, Ritter at NCAA finals

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Men’s lacrosse

Washington and Lee’s men’s la-
crosse team fell, 8-4, to Roanoke Col-
lege on Sunday in a match played in
Salem, Virginia. The win dropped the
General ’s record to 3-2, 0-1 ODAC as it
improved Roanoke’s record to 5- l , 1-0
ODAC. W&L is ranked seventh while
Roanoke is ranked seventeenth.

Roanoke shot out to a 6-0 lead
before the W&L’s midﬁelder, Rob
Brown, ’03, recorded a goal to get W&L
on the board at the half. Roanoke then
improved its lead to seven, making it
an 8-1 lead in the third. The Generals
held a 43-32 advantage in shots, scor-
ing one goal in the third and two more
in the fourth. Rob Brown, Matt Fink,
Dustin Martin, and Jack Murray each
recorded one goal.

W&L takes to the ﬁeld again
when it hosts Guilford on Wednes-
day in a 3:30 pm contest.

Men’s tennis

Washington and Lee’s men’s
tennis team met its first loss on
Saturday in a match played at
Mary Washington in
F redericksburg, Virginia.

The team lost, 6-1, dropping
its record to 11-1 overall. Mary
Washington’s record improved to
5-3.W&L did have a few out-
standing matches.

In singles play, Graham Nix
defeated Tim Ryan 7-5, 6-0. In
doubles play, the combo of K.C.
Schaefer and Chris Kimmel de-
feated Tim Ryan and Nate
Hathaway.

The Generals next take to the
court in a home match against
Averett on Wednesday at 3 p.m.
The team also has home matches
on Friday, against Rhodes at 3 p.m,
on Saturday, against Swarthmore,
at 12 p.m., and on Sunday against
Washington College, at 11 a.m.

Ritter competes
in NCAA Championship

Eric Ritter, ‘O3, ended his.
2003 swimming season by fin-1
ishing 22nd in the 200—yard
backstroke on Saturday at the

NCAA Division III Swim Cham-

pionships at Emory University.,

Ritter finished with a time of
1:55.67 among a ﬁeld of 29 swim-
mers.

tive season in the 100-yard back-

stroke on Friday. Though seeded.

14th in the 100-yard backstroke
after the morning preliminaries,
finished the race with 52.06 to ﬁn-
ish sixteenth.

On the ﬁrst day of the NCAA
Division III Swim Championships
last Thursday, Ritter ﬁnished forty-
eighth in the 50-yard freestyle with
a time of22. 14.

Ritter earned All-America
honors for the second consecu-_

 

PAGE 8

BY JOHN HYLAND
SPORTS WRITER

Washington and Lee’s baseball
team completed another undefeated
stretch last week to improve its
school record-winning streak to ten
games. The Generals took both
games of a doubleheader last Sat-
urday at Randolph—Macon and fol-
lowed it up with a victory over
ODAC power Bridgewater last
Wednesday at Cap’n Dick Smith
Field. The three conference victo-
ries elevated W&L’s record to 12-2,
6-1 ODAC and moved them into
sole possession of second place be-
hind Virginia Wesleyan who is 5-0.

In game one against Randolph-
Macon, the Generals opened up an
early lead with a five run first in-
ning, led by sophomore designated
hitter Zack Bausch’s three run
double. W&L would remain hot as
they would go on to score in six out
of the seven innings that they came
to bat, never relenting in a 17-4 dis-
mantling.

The Generals pounded out 15
hits and every starter reached base
safely. Senior shortstop Michael
Hanson went 4 for 5 on the after-
noon with four runs scored. Senior
centerfielder Bobby Littlehale also
finished 4 for 5, setting a school
record with four doubles; he scored
twice and added five RBIs. Junior
second baseman Austin Allain and
junior catcher Bryan Mulhern
belted homers in the victory. Junior
lefthander Peter Dean pitched well
on the mound, allowing only one
unearned run over five innings and
stuck out five to earn the win and
improve his record to 3-1 on the
season.

The second game of the
doubleheader would prove to be
much closer. Once again, the Gen-
erals opened up the scoring in the
first inning on an RBI single by se-
nior first baseman Bryan Gladysz,
who finished with three hits on the
night. W&L would score again in
the second and twice more in the
fourth to open a 4-1 lead.
Randolph—Macon would not go
down as quietly as they did in Game
1.

The Yellow Jackets scored two
runs in the sixth to close the gap to
4-3, prompting manager Jeff Stickley
to call on the right-handed Mulhern
to relieve his starter, junior
righthander Dan Kagey. Muhern
responded by not allowing a run
over three innings and striking out
the side in the ninth inning with
both the tying and winning runs on

SPORTS

Baseball remains
undefeated at 10-0

10-game winning streak a school record

FllEPHO'l'()
base to earn his first save of the
year. Kagey got the win for the Gen-
erals, pushing his record to 3-1, giv-
ing up three runs over six innings.
Hanson and sophomore leftfielder
Warren Hunter each ﬁnished the
game with two singles and two runs
scored. The two losses dropped
Randolph-Macon’s record to 3-5, 1-
3 ODAC.

The Generals hoped to main-
tain their momentum heading into
Wednesday’s game against
Bridgewater, who entered the con-
test tied for first place in the ODAC
with a perfect 4-0 record. For the
eighth straight game, W&L scored
in the first inning, a statistic that
has without a doubt contributed to
their success.

Hanson led off the inning with
a triple and scored on Allain’s
double. Gladysz followed with a
single and Littlehale loaded the
bases with a walk for Mulhern who
delivered with a two-run double to
left. Littlehale scored on an error to
round out the scoring. The
General’s bats would cool off after
the explosive start as hard-throw-
ing Eagle starter Todd Lewis settled
down and did not allow a run for
the rest of the game. But W&L had
already done all the damage that
they would need.

Junior righthander Michael
Wert started the game on the mound
for the Generals and pitched solidly,
permitting two runs, one earned
over five innings, but the team
would need its bullpen to finish the
job. In a rare relief appearance, Dean
was called on in the sixth inning and
pitched three scoreless innings.
With the game standing at 4-2,
Mulhern got the nod to try to earn
his second save in a row, coming
through to pitch a perfect ninth in-
ning. Wert received the win and
improved his record to 3-0. The vic-
tory was the Generals first over
Bridgewater since the 2000 season.

Stickley attributes the team’s
hottest stretch in school history to
a combination of “good play out of
the seniors, solid pitching and
timely hitting.” Yet, he seems de-
termined not to let the team get too
comfortable amid their success,
commenting after the Bridgewater
game, “It doesn’t hurt when you
win but you’ve got to let it go and
move on.” Clearly, the team has no
time to relax as it is in the heart of
its conference schedule. The Gen-
erals had a doubleheader this past
Saturday against Eastern Menno-
nite before facing Bridgewater once
again on the road on Tuesday.

SCVCII.

ittlehale Player 0 the
eek, Hanson sets records

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Washington and Lee
centerﬁelder Bobby Littlehale, ’03,
has been chosen as the Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference
(ODAC)

Player of
the Week for
the week end-
ing March 16,
2 0 0 3
Littlehale was
6-for 14 on the
week, scoring
three rims and
driving in a
team-high of

H e
also recorded
four doubles

set another Washington and Lee
benchmark in the first game of a
double-header with Randolph-
Macon. He hit his 38th career
double to move ahead of Patrick
Hall in the career double category
with two doubles in ﬁve bats.
Hanson is followed
by teammate
B o b b y
Littlehale, who
connected for a
W&L game
record of four
doubles in the
same game, going

4-5, foraca-
reer total of 32
doubles.

Hanson is one

and one sto-
len base. In
the first game
of a double-
header with Randolph—Macon,
Littlehale went 4-for-5 with a Wash-
ington and Lee record of fr‘ ,ir
doubles and ﬁves RBI’s.

Shortstop Michael Hanson, ’03,

PASS. Leslie Bogart prepares to pass in \l(/ednesday’s game against Hollins.

 

Bobby Littlehale has been chosen
ODAC Player of the Week

RBI away from
tying the career
RBI mark held
by Matt Kozora.
He is also approaching hits and
and at-bats career marks. Hanson
currently holds W&L career marks
in stolen bases (44), triples (13) and
runs scored (124).

FIIEH-1011)

Women’s lax 3-1,  in ODAC

BY JOHN HYLAND
SPORTS RRITER

The Washington and Lee
women’s lacrosse team easily
handled ODAC foe Hollins last
Wednesday opening up a 10-0 lead
just 7:36 into the game, ﬁnishing with
18 goals in the first half on 26 shots
to take an 18-0 lead. The Generals
did not even attempt a shot in the
second half, easing to an 18-2 vic-
tory.

The team has now won three
games in a row after dropping
their opening game to fifth
ranked St. Mary’s 8-4. W&L’s
record now stands at 3-1, 2-0
ODAC, totally dismantling their
two ODAC opponents, Guilford
and Hollins, by a combined score
of 38-6. The Generals are cur-
rently ranked thirteenth in the
country.

The barrage of first-half
scoring on Wednesday was led
by freshman midfielder
Katharine Lester, who had four
goals. Senior attacker Leslie
Bogart chipped in three goals
and an assist while junior
midfielder Kelly Taffe added
three goals. Freshman attackers
Laing Humphries and Amanda

Strickler each contributed two
goals and an assist.

The Generals defense did not
allow a shot in the first half and only
four in the second as junior goalie
Joanna Perini only had to make one
save in the victory. After the loss,
Hollins’ record fell to 1-5, 1-4
ODAC.

The team seems to be gelling
at the right time as it heads into
the middle of its schedule. Sopho-
more defensive midfielder Maggie
Speasmaker agrees with this per-
ception, commenting after the
game that, “We had problems ear-
lier in the year adjusting to a new
offense but the difficulties seemed
to have worked themselves out
and everything is kind of coming
together.”

Clearly, anytime a team
scores eighteen first half goals,
any notion that a team is strug-
gling offensively is erased.
There is no question that the
Generals faced a much tougher
opponent this past Saturday
when it traveled to face eighth
ranked Mary Washington, a
team that it lost to 14-3 last sea-
son. It is the‘ first of four
straight road games for the
Generals.

    

ER1N]uuUs
SPORIS EDHOR

‘r
MONDAY, MARCH 24, 2003,

Women’s tennis
wins 4, is now 16-O ’

BY ALLISON PERRY
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee
Women’s tennis team came out with
wins against Eastern Mennonite,
Randolph—Macon Woman’s Col-
lege, Roanoke, and Mary Wash-
ington this past week. The women
improved their record to 16-0, 10-0
in the ODAC.

The second ranked Generals
shut down Eastern Mennonite 9-0
at home on Tuesday. Eastern Men-
nonite is 2-3 overall, 1-2 in the
ODAC.

Sophomore Marie Trimble led
the women with a 6-2, 6-4 win in
the No. 1 singles match. Freshman
Megan Curran defeated her oppo-
nent 6-3, 6-1 in the No. 2 spot. In
the No. 3 singles match, freshman
Patty Roberts won her match 6-1,
6-0.

Freshmen Ingrid Easton and
Laura Neller both shut down their
opponents 6-0, 6-0 in the No. 4 and
5 singles, respectively. Freshman
Lauren Peters won by forfeit at No.
6 singles.

In doubles play, Curran and
Trimble teamed up to defeat their
opponents 8-0 at No. 1. Easton
and Roberts also won their match
8-0 at No. 2. Neller and Peters won
their match by forfeit at No. 3.

. Also on Tuesday, the women
defeated Randolph—Macon
Woman’s College in Lynchburg, 9-
0.

Senior captain Laura Bruno
easily won her match 6- 1 , 6-0 at No.
1 singles. Freshman Laura Mabry
played in the No. 2 spot, shutting
down her opponent 6-0, 6-0.
Sophomore Meredith Bailey also
won her match at No. 3, 6-0, 6-1. At
No. 4, sophomore Lora Farris de-
feated her opponent 6-0, 6-1. In
the No. 5 and 6 singles, junior Emily
Taylor and sophomore Kristin
Crawford won their matches 6-0, 6-
2 and 6-0, 6-1, respectively.

In doubles action, Bruno and
Mabry teamed up to shut down
their opponents 8-0 at No. 1. Bailey
and Farris also defeated their op-
ponents 8-0 in No. 2 doubles.

Crawford and Taylor won their
match with an 8-2 victory at No. 3.

On Thursday, the Generals de-
feated Roanoke at home, 9-0.

Sophomore Lindsay Hagerman
led the Generals with a win of 6-1, 6
at No. 1 singles. Senior captain Erika
Proko knocked off her opponent 6-0,
6-0 at No. 2. In the No. 3 singles match,
Trimble defeated her opponent 6-1, 6%
1. Easton won with a victory of 6-3, 6-
2 at No. 4.

Sophomores Bailey and Catherine
Torrey Stroud both shut down their
opponents 6-0, 6-0 at No. 5 and 6, re?
spectively.

In doubles, the fifth ranked
doubles team of Hagennan and Proko
easily defeated their opponents 8—()r
at No. 1. Easton and Trimble won their
match 8-1 at No. 2. At No. 3, Bailey
and Stroud teamed up to win their
match 8-2.

On Saturday, the Generals der
feated Mary Washington, 8-1. Mary
Washington is ranked 23'“ in the na-
tion and 6”‘ in the Atlantic South.

Hagerrnan led the women with at
win of 6-2, 6-3 over 17"‘ ranked Karli
Schneider at No. 1 singles. Hagennan
is currently tied for 13"‘ place in the
nation. ‘

Bruno defeated her opponent 63

1, 6-1 at No. 2. Proko also won her

match at No. 3, 6-2, 6-0. Senior Brandi

Jane Wedgeworth and Mabry each

shut down their opponents 6-0, 6-0 as
No. 4 and 5 singles, respectively.

Junior Liz Law rounded out the
top six with a 6-1, 6-0 victory.

In doubles play, Hagerinan and
Proko teamed up to win their match 8)!
3 at No. 1. Bruno and Mabry also
defeated their opponents 8-3 at No. 2.
Law and Trimble were defeated in
their match at No. 3, 8-4.

The Generals are on the road to-
day against Sweet Briar at 4:30 p.m.
They do not play again until Friday
when they travel to Emory University
in Atlanta to play in the Fab 5 tourna¥
merit.

The Generals will meet up against
15' ranked Emory, 4"‘ ranked Trinity
(TX), and 10”‘ ranked Claremorrtp-,

. Mudd-Scripps.

 

