 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

»W&L’s
Yreputation
wOm'esBoard

y BY CALEY ANDERSON
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

In the modern scarce job market,
the importance of emphasizing to po-
T terrtial employers the value of a W&L
diploma grows ever larger. While
W&L remains one of the nation’s top
15 Liberal Arts schools, name recog-

, . nition of “Washington and Lee Uni-
versity” remains low.

This is the recent concern of
the W&L Board of Trustees. Ac-
cordingly, they have voted to cre-

1 ate a subcommittee on external re-
lations, which will report to the
Board of Trustees committee on de-
velopment and external relations.
The purpose of this committee, ac-
cording to Director of W&L Com-
munications Tom White, is to “ex-
amine whether W&L should engage
in a significant campaign to in-

hr crease its national recognition.”
The potential campaign would aim
at ensuring that potential students
for both the law and undergradu-
ate campus, human resources direc-
tors, and admissions officers at
graduate schools will be fully aware
of the high quality of the W&L aca-
demic program.

g} The subcommittee, whose re-
port to the Board of Trustees is ten-
tatively set for this coming Fall, will
most likely be comprised of 12-14
members, and will include a diverse

V range of individuals, such as Board
members, faculty representatives,
alumni representatives, and Uni-
versity Staff representatives. The

V chairman of the group will be Mr.

i John Cleghom, a member of the
Alumni Board of Directors an ex-
chair of the Communications Advi-
sory Board.

‘Y The subcommittee will attempt
to determine if it is necessary and/
or feasible for W&L to embark on
such a publicity campaign. If so,

.1, then the subcommittee should also
report on recommended methods for
accomplishing this, perhaps draw-
ing from means utilized by other
schools in similar efforts. The sub-

' committee will most likely have its
ﬁrst meeting in the Spring term, and
will do much of its work during the
Summer.

STEP INTO SPRING. Freshmen Emily Lang, Chris Lauderman
and Katie Van Veen relax on the Front Lawn Saturday
afternoon. Students took advantage of the warm temperatures
and unseasoriably clear weather during the latter part of the

A   NG-TUM

PHI

 

VOLUME CV, NO.XXlll
MONDAY, MARCH 17, 2003

T/ye rtudenti voice of Warbington and Ire Uiziverrin Trim 7897 (D On/me at p/Eu//u.edu

FUNANDSUNANDBOOKSP '

week by taking their studies outside. Rainy weather approaches
however, according to The Weather Channel. Warm
temperatures will remain, but students and faculty might want
to take their umbrellas with them to class.

ji-:13 BROOKS/ TheRir1g-tum Pin’

University

V BY MATTHEW McDERMOI'r
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

Performing the work of admissions, ﬁnancial aid and
student life ofﬁces, Mimi Elrod directs the Summer Schol-
ars Program, a four-week program for rising high school
seniors.

“I am a committee of one,” said Elrod, who personally
reads all applications and determines acceptances.

Ar The Summer Scholars Program, which this year runs
from June 29 to July 25, allows college-bound students to
“develop their intellectual curiosity and prepare to meet
the academic and social challenges of college,” according
to its Web site.

W&L will

host race
conference

BY KYIE WAss
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

On March 20 and 21, Washington and Lee University’s
Chavis Memorial Committee will present its ﬁrst biennial
John Chavis Memorial Symposium. The Chavis Commit-
tee, a group created three years ago by the university in
order to develop a more inclusive campus, is hosting the
symposium both to honor John Chavis, a student of Lib-
erty Hall (Washington and Lee) in the late nineteenth cen-
tury and the first college educated African American in
the United States, as well as to examine important contem-
porary issues dealing with race and ethnic diversity.

The topic of this year’s symposium is Brown vs. Board
of Education, which will celebrate its ﬁﬁieth anniversary
next year. Professor Ted DeLaney, the associate professor
of History and a member of the Chavis Committee said
that they decided to celebrate it a year early in the hopes

 

that “if Washing- A ton and Lee did it
ﬁrst, we wouldbe able to get some
publicity on it.” The forum, which
was funded in large part by a
grant from John Ballantine,a 1968
graduate of Washington and
Lee, and his wife Caroline, will
host several _  speakers includ-
ing James L Patterson,
Constance Curry, DE ANEY M i c h a e l

Klarman, William Darity Jr. and Kara Miles Turner, all of
whom have studied and written on Brown vs. Board of
Education or current racial issues in the United States.

The anniversary of the Brown vs. Board of Education
is particularly meaningful for Washington and Lee be-
cause of the university’s historic connections to it. John
Davis, who graduated from Washington and Lee Univer-
sity in 1892 and Washington & Lee law school in 1895,
represented South Carolina in the case and argued on its
behalf in front of the Supreme Court. On the opposing
side‘, Judge J’ohr"t‘”Minor Wisdom who graduated from
Washington and Lee in1925 and served on the Judicial
Court of Appeals for the fifth Circuit, was responsible for
several historic rulings concerning segregation aﬁer the
Brown vs. Board of Education decision. Finally, it was
Justice Lewis Powell, who graduated from W&L in 1929
and W&L law school in 1931, that authored the decision
in the Regents of the University of California vs. Bakke
striking down quotas but stating that race could be used
as.a factor in deciding admission.

To prepare for the symposium, students gathered on
March 6"‘ in the Boatwright Room to discuss Patterson’s
book Brown vs. Board of Education: A Civil Rights Mile-
stone and Its Troubled Legacy and its modern day impli-
cations. In addition to the lectures from the guest speak-
ers, the symposium will include student led group discus

SEE RACE, PAGE 2

prepares for high school students

Interested high school juniors submit a transcript,
letter of recommendation and SAT or ACT scores.

Elrod, who worked for four years in the W&LAdrms-
sions Ofﬁce, uses “the same criteria” to select approxi-
mately 150 students.

“(The Summer Scholar’s) admissions rate is much
higher, and we are not as selective,” Elrod said.

All the same, W&L accepts 30 percent of former sum-
mer scholars, a higher percentage than the general body.

“About 60 percent (of scholars) apply (to W&L), one
half of those are accepted, and one half of those choose
to come,” Elrod said.

When here, students take three classes in one of eight
curricula, all taught by W&L professors, such as History

Professor Holt Merchant and Chemistry Professor Steve
Desjardins.

Desjardins will teach Chaos in Biological Systems
which is, according to the catalog, “an introduction to the
principles of chaotic dynamics and fractal geometry as
they apply to problems of biological interest.”

“The faculty are what makes this program success-
ful,” Elrod said. “They like teaching kids of that age, who
are waking up to a new way of thinking.”

The curricula are American politics, brain and behav-
ioral science, business and economics, environmental
analysis, humanities, journalism, law and society and pre-
medical studies.

Although students do not receive academic credit,

the program sends an evaluation of their performance to
the student, their high school guidance ofﬁce and the
W&L Admissions Office.

“Some professors become advocates of the students,
and can really help their admissions (wto W&L),” Elrod
said. “If a professor says, however, that he wouldn’t like
to teach that student in college, that’s the kiss of deat .”

As minors, summer scholars are subject to special
rules. They carmot ride in non-university cars or stay
out after 11:30 on weeknights or 12:30 on weekends.
Anyone caught using alcohol or drugs is immediately
sent home.

SEE SCHOLARS, PAGE 2

Meeting draws crowd

:Studen 3: pay attenti to the Lex roads

)4’

BY JED BROOKS
PHOTO EDITOR

We recently presented you with

a list of potential parking violations.
Today, we will provide you a list of
moving violations. I personally be-
came aware of a couple of these at
approximately 9:03pm on Sunday,
March 9, 2003. Ironically, this experi-
ence came only a few minutes after I
turned in last week’s article concem-
ing parking tickets. There are far more

V possible parking violations than mov-

ing inﬁactions, but the fines for the
latter are much more harsh. Here are
some highlights:

-Driving wrong way on a one-way
street —— $30.00 — I must see this oc-
cur at least once every two weeks.

There are several one-way streets in
booming Lexington, look for the
signs. V

-Earphones while driving ——
$25.00 — What? People do this? Just
turn up the bumpin’ ghetto bass in-
stead.

Failure to display license plates
—— $25.00 — What, are you a drug-rim-
ner? Be proud of who you are. Espe-
cially if you have a quality vanity
plate, like Virginia’s 180 (that’s an ac-
curate number according to VDMV)

-Failure to obey traffic lights --
$100.00 —This one will get you. I can
vouch for that. Don’t speed through
an already red light, either. That’s
especially dangerous. .

-Speeding when speed limit 55

MPH or 65 MPH——$5.00 perMPH—'

BAD BOYS. A Lexington police car roams the mean streets of Lexington.

This adds up real fast. Do the math.
Speeding when speed limit not

55‘MPH or 65 MPH—— $3.00 perMPH

— $3.00 may sound like a small amount

of money, but when multiplied, it
quickly grows.

sEE TICKETS, PAGE 2

    

JED BROOKS / The Ring-I/«In Pbi

BY MEGAN MORGAN
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

This year, the sixth annual Na-
tional Symposium on Theater in
Academe was hosted by Washing-
ton and Lee University this past
weekend, March 13-15. Those par-
ticipants in the symposium were
treated to many events throughout
the weekend, including a three-
course dinner on Friday evening.

According to Washington and
Lee Associate Professor of Ro-
mance Languages Dominica
Radulescu, who is also the confer-
ence director, the “aim of this sym-
posium is to gather University and
College teachers and scholars who
have been involved in theater pro-
ductions with their students, who

have a particular interest in combin-
ing the teaching of language and lit-
erature with acting or directing, or
who have a particular interest in the
tension between theoretical and prac-
tical aspects of the dramatic genre.”
as posted on the Symposium’s
website. Sarah Bennell, of Washing-
ton and Lee, served as the Adrninis—
trative Director to Radulescu.

The conference began on
Thursday morning at nine in the
morning with the official opening of
the symposium, which included brief
speeches by Professor Joseph
Martinez, chair of the Theater Depart-
ment Professor Radulescu. Further
throughout Thursday, participants
could attend sessions about per

SEE THEATRE, PAGE 2

 

.lAME;S -a. l,F§YEii_.Ft§z :..rx':w
\"J  in  u:~..~m‘asi".rv

PAGE 2 i  
1‘; ""

 

<1-

 

SCHOLARS, FROM PAGE 1

Students are otherwise free.

“They can walk to Wal-mart, if
they want,” Elrod said.

Virginia Military Institute cadets,
however, are restricted from the W&L
campus.

“We have to take care of our
girls,” Director of Security Mike
Young said. “In past years we have
had cadets try to come up to some of
the female summer scholars.”

“Security is very helpﬁil in keep-
ing away people who aren’t wanted
here,” Elrod agreed.

Scholars live in campus dorrnito-
ries, and are attended by summer
scholar counselors, all of whom are
W&L undergraduate students.

if '::i2.lt:<c-1i

W8

 

high school wonderland

.il\\l()f\.
ACTION. Summer scholars of old work with cameras during a journalism class.

 

“Perhaps because of the state of counselorships.” There are 15 posi-
the economy,” Elrod said, “there are
currently 30 students applying for 11

tions in all, to permit a 10-to-one stu-
dent-to-counselor ratio.

RACE, FROM PAGE 1

sions and a presentation of the documentary, “The
Intolerable Burden,” produced by Constance Curry,
which examines the failure of public education and the
fast-track to prison for young black men. Prof. DeLaney
and the other organizers of the event hope that as the
symposium draws to a close, discussion will range past
the Bakke case to examine contemporary issues such
as challenges to the University of Michigan’s affirrna-
tive action program and the decision of Virginia Tech’s
Board of Visitors to prohibit the school from taking
race, gender or ethnicity into consideration during the
admissions process.

TICKETS, FROM PAGE 1

These fines are compounded with other charges total-
ing $47.00. When you tack on the additional pain of
having to tell parents (and in my case the campus,
though that was a personal choice) of your stupidity,
the cost is almost as priceless as a MasterCard mo-
ment. Again, the police do not target students; they
are just after bad drivers. These are only a few of the
moving violations. For more information, contact the
Police Department, or get pulled over for a copy. I
promise this was a momentary lapse, please don’t be
afraid to ride with me. I promise you will be safe from
now on. ‘

Happy belated b-day,
Megan Morgan!!!

Phi love, KJH, BTK,
CCG, EEJ, JEB!

 

THEATRE, FROM PAGE 1

forming in a foreign language, with speakers from The
College of William and Mary, North Georgia College
and State University, and the University of Dayton. On
Friday, Washington and Lee’s Professor Eric Wilson
organized and chaired a session entitled, “Re-locating
the Renaissance Stage,” which included speakers from
both Penn State University and the University of Penn-
sylvania. Other activities on Friday included a German
play performance directed by Roger Crockett of Wash-
ington and Lee, and a Workshop for Theatrical Expres-
sion, followed by a three-course dinner in the Univer-
sity Center.

Following sessions discussing theater and poli-
tics on Saturday morning, and a seminar called
“Techniques of production and Un-canonical Ways
of Dealing with the Theatrical Canon,” the sympo-
sium culminated with two plays at the Blackfriars
Theater in Staunton — Caesar, and Knight of the
Burning Pestle.

Participants in the Theater Symposium were required
to give $70 to register by February 28, which included
continental breakfast, coffee and refreshments through-
out the conference, and the three-course dinner on Friday
evening.

According to the National Symposium on Theater’s
website, any teachers and scholars were invited submit
papers and multimedia materials that do not exceed
twenty minutes of presentation time. Suggested topics
included the state of theater in the academe, theater
and gender, women and the stage, Shakespeare, the-
ater and the poetic imagination, and discussions on
performing in a foreign language. Any of these presen-
tations had to be approved by sending in an abstract
by December 1, 2002.

But it wasn’t a bar for long. The local Police Department shut down Swift;/’s
Lounge for illegal drug activity. instead of condemning the property, they
contacted their local community coalition. The coalition brought in contractors
who donated their time to renovate the building. And the doctor got his hospital
to volunteer, services for Families that need drug counseling.

lt’s funny what happens when we all work together. Communities become a better
place for everyone,‘ especially our children. Community coalitions bring
other community groups together. And getting involved is easy. Just contact
www.helpyourcommunity.org or 1 -877-KIDS-313. They’ll tell you how your group
can help. You’ll be surprised how much you can accomplish.

‘lou get More WHEN you get toaeti-ier.

Office of National Drug Control Policy

 

Tim McGuire will speak

In association with the 35th Institute on the Ethics in

Journalism. The Knight Program in Journalism Ethics is

onetspecial emphasis of the University’s Department of
Journalism and Mass Communications. The public‘ lec-
ture, which will be conducted by Tim. J. McGuire, is the
centerpiece of a two-day symposium that involves stu-
dents and practising journalists from wide geographic
and diverse professional areas. The John S. and James L
Knight Foundation awarded an endowed professorship
to Washington and Lee in 1996. D1‘. Louis W. Hodges has
held the Knight Chair since its establishment. To assure
long—term ﬁnancial support for distinctive programs in jour-
nalism education, the Foundation has since 1990 been
frmding professional chairs at major‘ universities in the
United States.

The lecture will be at 4:30 pm on March 28th, in room
327 of the C-School. A

Russian department presents play

The Russian Department will be presenting a play
entitled, “Christmas Eve,” next Wednesday, March 26th,
in the duPont auditorium,

The play, which will be free to attend, is based on the
story written by Nikolai Gogol and is directed by Anna
Rodionova and her husband Sergei Kokovkjn, both promi-
nent directors from Moscow, Russia.

James Chi/dress will speak

Prominent ethicist James F. Childress, a recipient of
Virginia’s highest academic award, will deliver a talk, “Bio-
ethics and Public Policy: Controversies about Human Clon-
ing and Stem Cell Research,” on Friday, March 21, at 4:30
pm. in Room A114 of Washington and Lee University’s
Science Center.

The event, which is free and open to the public, is
sponsored by W&L’s Society and the Professions Pro-
gram in Ethics. Its goal is to raise in the minds of under-
graduates the critical questions of social responsibility
inherent in their lives as citizens and professionals.

Top Bush legal counsel will speak

The Honorable Alberto R. Gonzales, President Bush’s
personal counsel and a former justice of the Texas Su-
preme Court, will give the inaugural address at Washing-
ton and Lee University’s First Annual Powell Lecture on
March 3 l .

The speech, which is open to the public without
charge, is at 11:30 am. Monday, March 31, in the Moot
Courtroom at W&L’s School of Law.

MONDAY, MARCH 17, 2003

The Hon. Mr. Gonzales currently serves as n0n-gov- .7

emmental counsel for President, and it is speculated that
he is a top choice should it become necessary for the
President to nominate a new Supreme Court justice.

Paulina Kewes will speak

Professor Paulina Kewes of the University of Wales
in Aberystwyth, will give a lecture on 18"‘ century En-
gland at Washington and Lee University Monday March’!
24, at 7:30 p.m. in Northen Auditorium.

Kewes’ talk, “The Staging of History in Early Modern j
England,” is free and open to the public.

Kewes holds a doctorate from Oxford University. She
was elected a Fellow of the National Humanities Center at
North Carolina’s Research Triangle Park, for the current‘
academic year.

She is a member of the executive committee of the’

»

British Society for Eighteenth Century Studies and a mem- '7

ber of the editorial board for Postgraduate English, a jour- j
nal published by the University of Durham, England.

Her research, publication and teaching interests in-'
clude the Renaissance, the Restoration, Shakespeare, ‘

Dryden, and eighteenth century literature, especially drama. _‘Y‘

Lee Chapel receives $5,000 award

The Lee Chapel Museum at Washington and Lee Uni-"
versity received a $5,000 award on Thursday (March 13);
from the Lee-Jackson Education Foundation for the;
museum’s expanding and student—oriented elementary edu-
cation programs.

?

Lucie Holland, a member of the foundation’s Board of "7

Directors, learned of the W&L museum’s education programs ,_
— and the work helping build them by then W&L senior Amanda j
Adams - in an article last year in the W&LAlumni Magazine. I

Holland, of Alexandria, subsequently brought the;
W&L museum program to the attention of the Lee-Jack-47
son Education F oundation’s board, which recently voted:
to award the Lee Chapel Museum a $5,000 grant for its?
education outreach efforts. 3

1 Lexington

Weekly

 

Forecast
Monday- Partly Cloudy, 74/45

Tuesday- Showers, 69/52
Wednesday- Thunderstorms 7 1/52
Thursday- Partly Cloudy- 68/42

F riday- Partly Cloudy- 64/40 =.
Saturday- Partly Cloudy-59/36
Sunday- Partly'Cloudy- 63/37

The Cadet Program Board
is proud to present

at McGee B  

March 28, 33 at 8 p.m.

in Cameron Hall
Lexington, VA

7

i Y

MARCH 17 200

  Philip

Y BY lxim Ro\w._\x1>

C.\\'ALlER DAILY (U, VlR(}ll\'I.\)

( U - W I R E )
CHARLOTTESVILLE, V‘ . - Philip
Morris USA recently transferred their
corporate headquarters from New
York City to Richmond, a move that
will bring Virginia a11 estimated $300

‘Y million in new investments. Gov. Mark

R. Warner and Michael Szymanczyk,
Philip Morris USA chairman and chief
executive oﬂicer, announced March
4 the company’s intention to consoli-

7 date its center of operations with the

Richmond manufacturing plant,
which currently employs 6,800 Virgin-
ians.

“Virginia has been courting Philip

'Morris for years,” said Rick

Richardson, director of communica-
tions and promotions for the Virginia
Economic Development Partnership.

Y

aw NEWS g%_._}

PA

orris relocates headquarters to Virginia

“From our viewpoint, it was a fairly
logical move for them.” Philip Morris
USA is a subsidiary of the Altria
Group Inc., the world’s leading ciga-
rette producer, controlling nearly 50
percent of the tobacco market.

“We are very pleased with the
reception we’ve received from the
greater Richmond community,” said
Jennifer Golisch, Philip Morris USA
spokesperson. “In terms of looking
to the future, we are excited about in-
tegrating our workforce.” Because
Richmond is already home to the
company’s largest manufacturing fa-
cility, executives travel weekly be-
tween Virginia and New York,
Richardson said. A

“It’s a huge shot in the arm for
this community,” Warner spokesper-
son Kevin Hall said. Warner “is ex-
cited about what it means for this
area.”

However, other members of the
community are not so thrilled about
the decision.

“There is a negative side to this
whole business,” said University
Medical Prof. Dudley Rochester, vol-
unteer and former president of the
American Lung Association of Vir-
ginia. “For the city and state to be
very proud of themselves gives a bad
image.”

A retired pulmonary physician,
Rochester is a member of the Virginia
Tobacco Settlement Foundation,
which is in charge of the anti-smok-
ing activities funded by rewards of
the 1998 Master Settlement Agree-
ment.

Signed by the nation’s four larg-
est tobacco companies and 46 states,
the agreement instituted compensa-
tory payments of more than $200 bil-
lion during the next 25 years. Roch-

ester added that he thinks it is wrong
for only 10 percent of Virginia’s share
of the settlement to be used for anti-
smoking purposes.

Negotiations for Philip Morris
USA’s relocation began last fall. Un-
der the ﬁnal agreement, Philip Morris
USA qualiﬁes for a $25 million perfor-
mance-based Virginia Investment Part-
nership grant as well as a $3 million
Govemor’s Opportunity Fund grant to
renovate existing facilities in Richmond
and Henrico County. In addition,
Philip Morris is eligible for tax credits
of about $8 million. Hall said the deci-
sion to relocate was reached in part
because Warner and Szymanczyk
served on the Virginia Board for Inde-
pendent Colleges together.

“Virginia is known for being busi-
ness-friendly when it comes to taxes
and regulation,” Hall said. “It’s a
slower, more affordable community to

live and work in” than New York City.

The same day Warner made the
announcement, his office issued a
press release listing his appointments
to the Tobacco Settlement Financing
Corporation, a new mechanism cre-
ated to help secure future payments
of Virginia’s share of the Master
SettlementAgreement.

Proceeds from the settlement are
being used to fund economic devel-
opment, aid farmers with new skills and
machinery, as well as extend the state’s
high—speed Internet infrastructure.

“It’s the chance of a lifetime for
those regions to really work in a uni-
ﬁed way to market themselves so there
could be some growth,” Hall said. Hall
acknowledged the coincidence that

.the appointments were announced

the same day as Philip Morris USA’s
decision to relocate its headquarters
to Richmond. “I can see a little bit of

irony there,” he said. The company
expects to finish the transition pro-
cess by June, creating 450 new jobs
with annual employee salaries rang-
ing from $90,000 to $133,000. The
health risks associated with smoking
overshadow the beneﬁts of housing
the headquarters of a Fortune 500
company, said Donna Reynolds, di-
rector of community relations for the
American Lung Association of Vir-
ginia. “None of the health data has
changed in terms of how tobacco af-
fects Virginians,” Reynolds said.

“There’s still going to be a lot of
work to do.” In response to griev-
ances with tobacco companies,
Richardson stressed the economic ad-
vantages, notably the increased state
revenue from personal income taxes.

“It’s a legal business,” he said.
“If it’s going to exist, why don’t we
get the beneﬁts?”

BRETT T. KlR\\’/AN
OPINIONS EDITOR

EMAR; IxIRWANB@WIiJB)U +
MONDAY, MARCH 17, 2003

THE RING-TUM PEI

PINIONS

 

PAGE 4

’i'i-§E:lh;\R3-'isi.R:l’i»R
T AFF EDITORIAL
“Cranes for Peace” poor choice by dept.

Few students venture all the way to the
Red House, but those who were unlucky enough
to stop by in the last week or so were treated
to more than Chinese and Japanese.

The Japanese Department has seen ﬁt
to call on students to fold origami cranes
for peace. On face, this act is harmless
enough, but one soon wonders why Profes-
sors Ikeda and Ujie think that it is appropri-
ate to mix controversial politics with language
study. Each teacher may have his stance on
the upcoming war against Saddam, but a
more tactful approach would have been to
share these in private conversations with
students and colleagues, not by lending the
weight of the department to unmistakably po-
litical opinions.

It cannot be denied that students in any and
every class at W&L, save the hard sciences,
are subject to some level of exposure to the
professor’s political leanings. By virtue of be-
ing human, professors and students alike are
unable to prevent their biases and prejudices
from tainting their scholarship.

Nonetheless, it is wrong and ill-considered
for any department, let alone one whose ex-
pertise is so far removed from the issue at hand,
to display its opinions so publicly. Moreover,
these opinions were not just shared with the
W&L community, but support for them was
actively pressed on students by asking them to
participate in the activity.

No one would question the inappropriate-
ness of the French Department asking students
to bake crepes in support of abortion or the
Music Department exhorting students to play
the kazoo in favor of the death penalty. Rather,
the purpose of a department’s advocacy on
campus is to educate students, both majors and
non-maj ors, about the value and content of the
subject being taught.

Campuses such as Berkeley, Oberlin and
Brown are infamous for the terribly biased and
partial education their students receive. W&L
has done well no to join their ranks.

Although we are not accusing the Japa-
nese Department of participating in this type of
acaderriic irresponsibility, we seriously question
the wisdom of mounting a politiclly-charged
campaign in opposition to the liberation of Iraq
on behalf of the Department.

te of the Week

 

“France and I have always been ﬁiends of the
United States.”

~French President Jacques Chirac
on“60 Minutes,” supposedly ina joking mood

Motley crw seeks De nod

With the Presidential primaries
merely a year away, candidates have
been lining up to gain a shot at bat-
tling President Bush in the fall. As an
exercise in self-ﬂagellation, your
humble columnist has provided a pre-
liminary proﬁle of the Democratic
contenders. Here are the (mostly) se-
rious ones, in alphabetical order:

Howard Dean (Ex-Govemor, Vt.):
This doctor-tumed-governor wants to
bring Vermont values to the
heartland. . .enough said. However,
Gov. Dean does walk away with the
Joe Biden Award for Presidential Pla-
giarism for stealing his slogan—
“Dean for America”—from NBC’s
“The West Wing.”

John Edwards (U.S. Senator,
N.C.): Despite Edwards’ once-fawn-
ing media coverage, the Democratic
National Committee cannot hide the
fact that North Carolina’s junior sena-
tor is just ﬁve years removed from his
career as a trial lawyer of the spilled-
coffee variety, countless John F.
Kennedy comparisons aside.

Dick Gephardt (U .S. Congress-
man, Mo.): The former House Minor-
ity Leader thinks that failing four con-
secutive times to regain a majority in
the House of Representatives quali-
ﬁes him to run the greatest country in
the world. As a bonus, if he could, he
would have his lips sewed to Big
Labor’s butt.

Bob Graham (U .S. Senator, Fla.):
The conservative (for a Democrat)
senior Senator from the Elian State
could be a formidable candidate, how-
ever, his support of the filibuster
blocking Hispanic judicial nominee
Miguel Estrada will not help him with
the nation’s fastest-growing voting
block. Additionally, open-heart sur-
gery is not usually a particularly aus-
picious way to begin a campaign.

John Keny (U .S. Senator, Mass.):

   
 

, rnmen'n1.tom, dithgephnrdt2004.t'nm, /eutihhur, eduInrdt..rerm nnjoe2004.tom,

  
   

photo-/eonttantinmtom, rzewrJahoo.toIz1, grahnm.m1ate.gov

AIMIN’ AT W. (l-r) Carol Moseley Braun, Howard Dean, Dick Gephardt, Dennis
Kucinich,]ohn Edwards,]oe Lieberman, Al Sharpton,]ohn Kerry, Bob Graham

Dennis Kucinich (U.S. Con-
gressman, Ohio): Winning the
“Peace at any Price” award for anti-
war cowardice, Rep. Kucinich aims to
be the most liberal candidate in the
ﬁeld. Of note, this candidate has the
distinction of being Mayor of Cleve-
land when the city, for the first time in
American history, defaulted on its
loans.

Joe Lieberman (U.S. Senator,
Conn.): The “ghost of elections
past” has entered the 2004 fray.
Sen. Lieberman provides proof that

Despite his combina- the D e mo c rat s
tion of Michael   don ’ t b ury th eir
Dukakis’s liberalism " wounde (1, even
and Al Gore’s per- IOHN HEATH  though they

sonality, Sen. Kerry

appears to some to be the early
frontrunner. You can’t count Sen.
Kerry (or his half-billion dollar check-
ing account) out, but it’s doubtful
that, having failed to be duped in
1988, America will fall for a Massa-
chusetts liberal.

should. The jury’s
still out on whether or not he has
the staying power to last.

Carol Moseley Braun (Ex-U.S.
Senator, Ill.): Never heard of Carol
Moseley Braun‘? Don’t worry, neither
has the rest of America. Sen. Moseley
Braun hangs her Presidential hat on

the fact that she was the first black
woman to be elected to the United
States Senate. She doesn’t mention
that she was the first black woman to
be booted from the United States Sen-
ate—the usually Dem-happy voters
of Illinois threw her out after just one
scandal—plagued term.

Rev. Al Sharpton (Activist,
Aggravator): Whether protesting mili-
tary preparedness in Puerto Rico or
slamming the media for its harsh treat-
ment of family man Michael Jackson,
Sharpton is on the trail, tackling the
issues important to every American.
Of note, he still has not apologized for
inciting arson at Freddie’s Fashion
Mart, resulting in the death of seven,
or falsely accusing six law enforcement
oﬁicers of Wappingers Falls, N.Y. of
the rape of Tawana Brawley, even
though Brawley has recanted.

In summary, to quote Jim
Hi ghtower, “If the gods had meant for
us to vote, they would have given us
candidates.”

Editor in chief Katie J. Howell
Opinions Editor BrettT.Kirwan
Arts & Life Editor Catherine Guy
Sports Editor Erin Julius
Photo Editor Jeb Brooks
Asst. News Editor CaleyAnderson
Photographers Tallie Jamison
TheresaAnderson
Copy Editor Donny Banks

Business Manager Thomas Worthy
Circulation Director Henry Grimball
Advertising Assistant McQueen Calvert

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor in chief, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily re-
ﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

Annual Subscription Rate: $30

Letters to the Editor

Homosexual activity is a sin

Dear Editor,

I’ve read the continuing articles and dialogue about
homosexuality with great interest. To this point, I’ve ab-
stained from commenting because I’ve felt that there were
many more pressing issues that the Christian community
needed to deal with and discuss. However, the sheer vol-
ume of erroneous claims that have been made on the be-
half of and ﬂung in the face of Christianity has compelled
me to say something.

Our culture has elevated the value of tolerance above
all others. Consequently, this value system has polluted
the church and our conceptions of God. I feel that if we are
to be faithful to God’s revelation of Himself to us in the
person of Jesus Christ through the Bible, we must come to
the conclusion that he is certainly tolerant of people, but
never of their sin. As a Christian, I feel that the best we can
do is to ﬁrst recognize our own shortcomings and faults.
For if we presume to be better than another, we have en-
tirely missed the point and message of Christ.

From this foundation of realizing that we are all equally
depraved, our only response can be to love one another,
being mindful of our shared stumblings. However, I feel
that like tolerance, love is a value that has been tainted
and skewed by our society. Love is not synonymous with
wide-reaching, blanket tolerance. Christian love is to say
that I want and desperately desire what is best for you. It
means not allowing one another to remain in the gutter in
our shortcomings, but doing our best to liﬁ one another
into the ﬁlll life God commands us to.

Granted, there seems to be much recent debate, even
within the Church about homosexuality, but I feel that if
we are to read the Bible for what it says, we must conclude
that homosexual activity must be seen as sin, not to be
condoned.

TALKBACK: 

 

“Robert, as in R.E. Lee.”

-Beniie Campbell ‘05
-Tirn Smith ‘O4

‘ “Detely NOT
Asher Sirncoe.’

However, I feel that the Christian community has
done a pitifully poor job of seeing all sin as equal. The
only way that Christians ought to come together is to
say that we are all broken—me in my pious pride, you in
your dishonesty, and our brother in his homosexuality.
The reality is that we are all sinners, desperately broken.
We must realize that we all stand equally condemned in
God’s judgment.

However, we also must realize that we all stand un-
der Christ’s grace, more loved than we ever dare hope. If
I dare say that a homosexual is somehow more condemned
for his or her sin than I am for mine, I have lost sight of
the truth of Christ’s message. Our being made right with
God is not dependant on what we do or do not do (read:
lie, pray, cheat, go to church, be drunk, be homosexual
etc.), but rather only on what Jesus Christ has done on
the cross.

We must love one another as and because Christ ﬁrst
loved us. We must walk with one another, being honest
about our brokenness, knowing that we are in desperate
need of help. Jesus Christ does not ask that we ﬁrst ﬁx
ourselves before coming to Him, rather, He comes to us
exactly where we are.

Sincerely,
Andy Mendrala ‘04

Bible clear on condemnation of gays

Dear Editor,

As a Bible-believing Christian, I take exception to
your article “Gays not condemned” in the March 10 is-
sue of The Ring-tum Phi. I did not get the pamphlet in
question, but I can respond to the arguments. Pastror
Orvadal does indeed have “a direct pipeline to God that

SEE LETTERS, PAGE 5

“Well, that deends om
husband’s name.”

-Nancy Francis ‘04

  

 ﬁrstchild?  

“Samwise Gamgee.”
-Cam Smith ‘04

Alaskan oil
not answer
to energy dilemma

Reports in the New York Times this week have
released the information from a study conducted by
the National Academy of Sciences concerning oil drill-
ing in Alaska. These study results have come at a very
appropriate time as the Senate is looking to vote on
this very issue very soon. This vote is expected to be
much closer than last year ’s vote of 54-46 that rejected
the drilling.

However, with war to begin in a matter of days
rather than weeks, the Bush administration is no
doubt trying to end
dependence on
Iraqi oil. As Senator
Lisa Murkowski, an
Alaska Republican

’””LI:I?~E6i: CENTER
NICR RAMSEY ‘03

who is a leading proponent of the drilling, stated '

“We’re paying Saddam Hussein billions of dollars

for gasoline and aviation fuel to send our aircraft’

carriers and troops to ﬁght him. That logic does
not make sense as an energy policy.”

However, this type of thinking is ﬂawed as well.
Now that we’re planning on going to war with Iraq, it
is suddenly immoral to give the Iraqi leader our money.
Forget the fact that if Iraq and al-Queda are linked,
then we’ve been ﬁinding terrorism with those SUVs
for years.

The real way to think is not ﬁnding new oil in
Alaska, but ﬁnding and developing new energy
sources. We should also be more responsible in the
way we use current energy supplies. This same Sen-
ate last year defeated a bill that would have forced
automobile makers to make their SUVs more fuel-
efﬁcient.

That alone could have reduced need by one mil-
lion barrels daily, which is more than the Alaskan
refuge could produce in the same amount of time at
its peak.

However, this is unlikely to slow the supporters of .

the idea in Congress. What better friend to have in
Congress if you can stand to make money from oil than
George W. Bush? Merely ask the Vice President about
Halliburton’s oily cash box.

The truth is that many Republicans in Congress
are looking to drill now in the Alaskan refuge’s coastal
plain. This is a l.5 million—acre wilderness that cannot
be drilled in without authorization by lawmakers in the

District. Just as a reference, 1.5 million-acres is twice ‘

the size of Rhode Island.

So, why is this drilling such a problem? Well, the
study showed that the effects of the drilling have not
been the most favorable on the Alaskan wilderness. In
Alaska’s freeze and thaw temperatures a tire mark can
actually become a near permanent geological change
to the landscape.

Aside from this, the seismic activities of the oil
wells have aﬁected the paths of whales on the Alaskan
coastline. These whales are very important to the na-
tive communities of the state. They have been far less
successful in hunting them due to this problem.

The whales have not been the only animals af-
fected by this activity over the past three and a half
decades. Female caribou are not having as many calves
and there has also been a drop in the birth rate of many
bird species, including snow geese, eiders and some
shorebirds.

Problems are already evident as physical evidence A

still remains from the ﬁrst Alaskan drilling that occurred
at Prudhoe Bay in 1968. The study also indicates that
while oil companies’ techniques have greatly improved
since that time, they are still not safe enough to pre-
vent drilling from having a negative effect on the land.

There is also no state or federal law requiring oil
companies to remove leftover equipment, gravel beds
and other vestiges of exploited wells. The Academy’s

panel also noted that companies would have to have a ‘

strong incentive from the government if they were to
spend the more than $6 billion to restore such a remote
region.

It will again be up to the Senate to show the Bush ,

administration that conservation is the solution. It is
clear that the White House is looking to expand do-
mestic oil excavation.

Again, the Times reports that Bush’s Secretary of
the Interior, Gale Norton has been trying to open 8.8
rriillion acres in the northwest corner of the National
Petroleum Reserve, while seeking to ease important
environmental protections imposed by the Clinton ad-
ministration. Norton’s offices are also planning to lease
nearly 10 million more acres in the Beaufort Sea in North-
emAlaska.

I’m still waiting for the hydrogen fuel cell cars prom-
ised in the State of the Union address. Meanwhile, the

President is content to continue stabbing holes in our ,

nation’s wilderness to squeeze out every drop of the
black gold.

 
  

 
   

“PLEDGE.”
-GrantKrapf‘06

 

 

 
 

  

MONDAY, MARCH 17, 2003

iii» -7
.; 3

OtiliiioNs

 
   

PAGE 5

  ‘Tasteless campaign poster
‘brings porn to campus

it

Since EC election time is in full
swing, no doubt most students have
noticed the signs blanketing campus
exhorting students to vote for one
“Bukkake.” In fact, there is no stu-
dent narned Bukkake, let alone one so
named running for an EC position.
However, the truth of what is no doubt
a fraternity prank goes much deeper
than that simple confusion.

The trouble began when I first
noticed the posters adorned with a
picture of Che Guerva, a murderous
communist revolutionary and, natu-
rally, a darling of the Left. Perhaps he
is so mindlessly adored by college lib-
erals because of all that he achieved
while a sufferer of terrible asthma, but
Guerva’s participation in the Cuban

' revolution brought to power a mur-

derous government that has impris-
oned the island for over 40 years.
Tragically, Guerva, and the ide-
ology his misguided revolution rep-
resents, have not yet been tried and
condemned on the world stage like
Nazism was. Communism has killed
more people in this century than all
the wars in human history combined,
but dewy-eyed ideologues continue
to march in its support and cluelessly

LETTERS, FROM PAGE 4

tells him (and all Christians) exactly what the Almighty
hates and how (H)e will judge people. It’s called the Bible,
a.k.a. the Word of God. Your dismissal of “a book written
hundreds of years after the time of Christ” completely
undermines your argument and makes you appear to be
mocking the Christian religion. You may not believe in the
Bible, but many people do take the Scripture seriously
and follow what it says, something you appear to be dis-
regarding.

Your interpretation of the Christian view on homo-
sexuality is also completely wrong. You say we use a “one-
sided interpretation that merely condemns a group of
people” and “defend(s our) hatred ofothers.” First of all, I
don’t know how there would be another way of reading
“Do not lie with a man as one lies with a woman; that is
detestable,” Leviticus 18 :22, as a condemnation of homo-
sexuality, but perhaps you can twist it somehow.

Anyway, my main point is that Christians don’t hate
homosexuals as people, we only hate their acts. “Love the
sinner, hate the sin” is a phrase I often hear to describe
this. Even in your quotation of the Wisconsin pamphlet, it
says “God hates such (homosexual) acts and judges them
severely.” You have twisted his words around to say the
pastor hates gays, which is not correct.

Homosexuality is just one of a long list of sins that
the Bible condenms and it is our right to believe the Bible
as long as our beliefs don’t take away the rights of others.
I understand that there are a few people that have physi-
cally attacked or killed gays in the name of God, but, make
no mistake, these radical minorities do not represent the
Christian attitude toward homosexuals: We love our neigh-
bors as ourselves, but that does not entail accepting all
their actions and compromising our own morals.

Sincerely,
Alexa Moutevelis ‘O6

struction.” I accuse eighteen months of national cultiva-
tion of fear, and subtle enforcement of misunderstanding
of Islamic mentality and motive, by a part of Jewry sup-
porting Zionism, with leading us along the road feared
and foreseen by Founder Washington in his Farewell
Address §33 et. seq. (I consider Jews like Masons, my
freres.)

GW.’s words do apply and are apropos unless we
decide Israel is fuzzy and warm and harmless, yet without
deﬁcit of behavior. Rather, I submit evidence of tactics
(“How Israel Builds its F iﬁh Colunm,” Christian Science
Monitor, May 22, 2002) (which I shall prove can be and
have been used contre nous) that totally qualify as for-
eign and un-American.

“By being uncomfortably tested,” I spoke in my High
School Valedictory address, “America may well regain
some of the ﬁre she may have lost since the days of Tho-
mas Paine...” Next year I was a W&L freshman, one of
three awardees of books by Phi Beta Kappa. In ’57, I aban-
doned academics, wishing to be in Omaha, yet ‘landed’ an
MP, then infantryman, in the canebrakes along the
Cumberland River. My later attempts toward a self-willed
college diplomas failed, but not entirely do the causes of
the failure appear. [Will-power, totally unlike Hitler, I ut-
terly condemn]

I am into, and heartily commend, Christian Science,
and I do not admit that I have ever lcnowingly admitted or
exhibited ‘illness’ of ‘mind,’ as if Mind could be touched
by non-mind, alias (sic) matter.

I am more sympathetic to Islamic points of view than
by “poor, pale, Protestant” reaction. This ﬁnal phrase came
to my mouth at Rhodes College in 1962, before return to
Lexington and argument with a parent caused my civil
detention and, while Kennedy pranced around Europe,
exposure to Virginia institutions inhabited by
unsophisticates which I have learned to love, approach,
and appreciate for humarmess. Saturday-night-at-Kroger’s
featured evidence of a small town and small university
student-body control. Die Gedanken sindfrei.

wear T—shirts bearing the visages of Ramsey responds: Sincerely,
hurnanity’s most fearsome killers. What I take exception to in your response is your use Jack “Jackie” Lackmann, ’58, ’63, and ‘64
‘V Guerva seems to occupy an es- of the words “we” and “our” describing Christians and Lexington, VA
pecially romantic place in the hearts the Christian beliefs. You seem to assume thatI am not a I I _
of these Stalinist hippies because of Christian. The truth is, I am. I have Christian beliefs. The    
his association with the much-misun- fact that mine greatly differ from yours illustrates how
I‘ derstood island of Cuba. The cam— wrong you are when you say that my “interpretation of DearEditor,

paign poster brings into sharp relief a
depressing lapse in students’ knowl-
edge of history. And, if students at
W&L do know enough not to plaster
Guerva’s face on poster, what should
one think about the average Ameri-
can youth?

If only the problems with the
poster began and ended with the
paean to Guerva, but, as I mentioned
before, there is no student named
Bukkake. What is it that these post-
ers now polluting our fair campus like
so much neon confetti are really ad-
vertising? Brace yourself.

Bukkake is the

   

CAsrRo’s RIGHT-HAND KILLER. Che
Guerva, an instrumental member of
Castro’s murderous regime and central
to many other bloody South American

and degenerate sense of humor. It is
sad that a purportedly mature and so-
phisticated W&L student would ﬁnd
such trash amusing.

But what of it? What are the ef-
fects this campaign for perversion
will have on our campus commu-
nity? For starters, the Admissions

Ofﬁce won’t be hear-

Pl~l0’IO COURTESY lniigeo/ire
revolutions, was prominently featured
on many “Bukkake” campaign posters,

but the juvenile tastelessness only began
there.

posters indicate a misunderstanding
of the gravity of EC elections. Our
races are not merely the popularity
contests of high school, but decide
which students will oversee a nearly
half-million dollar activities ﬁmd and
have the authority to expel their fel-
low students. When student self-
governance is treated with such a

the Christian view on homosexuality is also completely
wrong. ” People like yourself and Pastor Orvadal make
these statements as if your words are the only way Chris-
tians think.

And how can you say I ’m mocking Christian scrip-
ture? I think I made it clear that I feel the love Christ has
for mankind. To make the sacriﬁce he did is the purest and
most selfless love in recorded history. As for looking at
Leviticus 18:22, many religious scholars believe that this
verse comes from the improper translation of “male bed. "
This book has been translated more times than we

will ever know. And I just will not believe that my God
condemns people based on their sexual preference when
homosexuality occurs so often in other species in nature.
You have your beliefs, and I respect that. I have my
own. I just find the attitudes you and the Wisconsin Chris-

I was shocked!

Tell everybody to wear sunbonnets and hats plus
use sunscreen and do not get sun tans.

This is the third week after my type I skin cancer
operation between my nose and lip by dermatologist
Dr. Pauli. He said it would heal and there would be no
bad effects, and some people have these spots all over
their faces. My symptom was simply a less than l/8”
scabbed over growth that scabbed over 10 times in the
last year or so.

Last week, my fellow Lexington Presbyterian Church
ASK Sunday School class member VMI Math professor
Joe Martin died of class III skin cancer starting on the
face/neck. My Tucson brother-in—law has Type II skin
cancer on the face/neck with surgical scars all over. We
all have been long distance runners/walkers over years

name of a particularly R]GHT OF THE  in g back from any cavalier attitude, it is not surprising tians United have about this issue unnecessary and com- in the sun with‘no hat. Light skinned “Doc” Wilmore at
V disgusting and de- V‘ Japanese prospec— that the administration sees ﬁt to pletely devoid of the Christian love that Christ intro- theVisitor’s Center, VMI physics professor Dick Minnix
‘ grading sexual fetish.  tive who had the rnis- usurp increasing amounts of our re- duced to the world. I at the church, fellow ASK member and Presbyterian min-

The word is Japanese
and alludes to a practice that is both
exploitative and perverted. The not-
so-clever perpetrators of this taste-
less prank owe an apology to the en-
tire W&L community.

What possessed someone to
plaster the campus which such pala-
ver? Most likely, he thought, rightly,
that few students would be familiar
with such twisted behavior and that
to bombard an unsuspecting student

fortune of visiting
this month. And I’m not just blow-
ing smoke on this point— on Sun-
day afternoon, there was a large tour
group of Japanese roaming the cam-
pus. But more importantly, our cam-
pus culture will grow more coars-
ened and less in keeping with the
spirit of gentlemanly deportment
that General Lee imagined for W&L
students.
Also, the seriousness and pro-

sponsibility.

Many will respond that the
“Bukkake” campaign posters are no
more than a harmless prank. However,
at the risk of being crude, these post-
ers are no more appropriate than carn-
paign sig;ns advertising “Fellatio Now,
F ellatio Forever.” Whoever perpe-
trated this prank crossed well over the
line into tastelessness and sheer vul-
garity. He or they should ashamed and
will hopefully conceive future high

Alumnus blames war on Jews

Dear Editor,

I have thought to respond to some student who, ac-
companied by a female, and sporting on his bumper a W&L
sticker, was gently termed ‘honlcie’ by myself at Kroger’s lot
Saturday night. He parked, and to me looked ashamed even
while his vehicle honked. The pair drove away while I was
inside. Juvenile? Rather, I think, symptomatic of over-con-
trolled thought wishing despotic authority.

This week the local rag may publish my letter investi-

ister Phil Carr, and the young lady at Celtic Connections
all told me of their nose, multi-near-ear, and near-eye
skin cancers.

In my own case, I’m dark skinned and tan easily. Light
skinned persons get skin cancer faster. When I was born,
it was the custom to put babies out in the‘ sun because it
was thought to be healthy. I lived in a bathing suit (no
bath) for 8 years in North (Maury) River at our Wilson
Springs (Rockbridge Baths) cabin plus the years of run-
ning/walking exposed to the sun.

Again, tell everybody to wear sunbonnets and hats
and use suntan protection cream and do not get suntans.

 

 

 
    

  

x body with such ﬁlth would be an ex- fessionalism of the EC elections pro— jinks with an appropriately chastened gating the possible origin, and possible mistaken applica- Sincerely,
cellent tonic for a ﬂagging, juvenile cess has been dealt a blow. The fake attitude. tion, of the phrase (read cliché), “Weapons of mass de- Robert Bradley Moses
1‘ :;';',:.5;‘:.°.':I:'r'n"l'§: :.:.'.';.’I‘LI'.i’.:'.."..‘?Ii.°ZZT',s.sc. l--..... .,.;.m
‘I’.
Do you have opinions?
Do you want everybody know what they are?
I Do ou want to be an editor next ear?
Y Y
If so, the Phi Opinions section is the place for you!
3:.
l Contact Editor Brett T. Kirwan at X5129 or kirwanb@wlu.edu. § ,
No experience necessary’ I?“--_«“-I“ -' 1v‘“_”-."_"-'I  .
Y J‘SAMUELSLICER)1898L)FOUNDER O00OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO
Earn $1.0iBn—53..¢00fm'*yowﬁI.rdetrtGrow»
Ring—tum Phi, Stickeri—bumI Sum! 3 hours! .
We are the Stuff from Lexin ton! _ Crzvll-age fl.-ll’l!Zll'.’:liSi,9il%ig made Sample, Sale K-fl-fl Free.
V g    _ , A  , pp HOUSE FOR RENT
 imritaasrrg mam. rmaiatrie. Na  No ttriﬂrsi-. Just smears!
Fkruﬁraking d-’t.¥¢.t$ 913%  q1sid:b*.Cae£.wr1lrthe  tians worﬁfi 6  
R Make a difference this 6  3 BR/1 Bath
‘ 0 0 vi .  I. ’   _. I.  ‘_.I_». ..I I I I
summer while having the °“" """ “"“'”"“" " ‘W ”““"”*‘-8’ Living Room, Large Kitchen,

   

838-32:3-323$ » wwi.v..campusiruavziraiseizcarin .
Washer / Dryer ,

Large Backyard w/ Deck
$800/mo.
Call 458-7157, or 563-9810
for details

time of your life.

" Counselors and activity leaders needed to
work at summer camps for children and
adults with disabilities. Camps located near
Y Richmond and Roanoke, Virginia. Camp

season: early J une—mid August.
Visit our website at

www.va.easter'—sea|s.org/richmond
or call (804) 633-9855.

APARTMENTS (IN IIIIIEII:
close to Lexington. Ireautiiul condition.
notches racing river. one large l$425Imo.l
two small l$325Imo.l. law or undergrad,
tor next vear. 540-311-2980.
IIcwIrIrw@meIosnet

000000000IOOO<OOOOOO‘OOOOOOOOOOO000.00

 

 

 

CATHERINE C. GUY
AR"lS&LIFE EDIIOR
EMA1LGtiY<@wiiiEDU

T1ll%‘.ili1iN(j;-TLt‘:\-

MONDAY, MARCH 17, 2003

RT 8

i Pr”

 
 

 

PAGE 6 A

Buena Vista meets with mixed reviews from W&L students

One perspective: ,

BY HAYNES KING
TRAVEL CORRESPONDENT

If the urban atmosphere of
Lexington is too much for you, there
is a place you can go within ﬁfteen
minutes of beautiful Washington and
Lee to slow your life down for a while.
You may have heard of it before,
Buena Vista. As you probably learned
in your first encounters to the
Lexington community, it is not
pronounced like the Spanish word.

So, what can you do in this
exciting town? You may be asking
yourself that right now. Well, to tell
you the truth, not much.

The highlight of my own trip to
Buena Vista was the Canton Chinese
Restaurant. I do prefer Canton over
our own Hunan, but the drive
hinders my willingness to go. I
would recommend the Sesame
Chicken or the Sweet and Sour
Chicken. Both are tops. A nice,
traditional Chinese atmosphere sets
the mood as well.

You could also visit Southern
Virginia University, formerly known as

Southern Sem. It’s a Mormon school.
I don’t know what you would want to
do here, though.

If you are looking for a new futon,
a nice futon shoppe used to sit in the
“downtown” area of BV. I think it
closed, though.

Well, that about wraps up BV.

Another perspective:

BY CATHERINE GUY
ARTS & LIFE EDrroR

Our neighbor to the
southeast, Buena Vista, has more
than its share of small—town
America charm, much of which is
sadly underappreciated by
students here at Washington and
Lee. BV is a mere ten minute drive
down route 60, yet many W&L
students have never been there.
BV not only provides a welcome
change of pace to W&L’s

    
  

exciting cultural and shopping
opportunities.

My personal favorite attraction
in Buena Vista, and that of many
W&L students, is the Paradise Isle
tanning facility. Paradise Isle
provides many W&L and SVU
students alike with a clean, efficient,
and professional place in which to
enjoy the effects of a tanning bed.
Paradise Isle has ten beds, and
patrons can buy bulk appointments
for a very reasonable price. The beds
are cleaned and sanitized between
uses by the friendly and
knowledgeable staff, who not only

\‘t’\\'.\V/.K'EV\\'Sl":h'llUi\«lA.(X(3

\w\r.. lJ'NRs1’RlNG.C1)1il/”‘ \l\R

each tanner with protective eyewear
and a towel. While there, patrons
have the opportunity to purchase a
myriad of high quality and affordable
tanning lotions and oils. Best of all,
Paradise Isle plays Thunder Country
(96.7 fm) nonstop, providing tanners
with a pleasurable listening
experience while lying in the beds.
Another of Buena Vista’s
major consumer attractions is
Becky’s, a small and delightful
boutique located on Magnolia
Ave. in BV. Becky’s boasts an
impressive array of formal dresses
and is a must for any girl searching

 

 

 

 

A COLIAGE OF BUENA VISTA: A typical street view in downtown Buena Vista (top left) shows the city’s
Small Town America charm as well as its numerous little shops. Bikers (bottom left) enjoy the
breathtaking natural beauty of the mountains surrounding BV. This photo depicts one of the many

Not only can one find an attractive
and stylish dress here, but many
customers also leave with
matching shoes, handbags, and
jewelry to complete the evening’s
wear. Becky’s has been known to
outfit many participants in local
and national pageants. The staff
is extremely warm and willing to
help shoppers find a perfect dress.
Becky’s also carries a line of
everyday women’s wear, but it is
not nearly as appealing as the
formal dress line.

Buena Vista in Spanish means
“beautiful view” and this town is in

nestled in the mountains in the Blue
Ridge, and provides students with
countless activities for outdoor fun.
Hiking in BV’s surrounding
mountains is a lot of fun, and a
relaxing, welcome break from daily
life in Lexington now that warmer
weather is approaching. If you’re
looking for a change of pace in the
dating scene, a romantic drive on the
Blue Ridge Parkway (which has an
exit in BV) is certain to bring out the
sensitive side in everyone. Also,
hunting is rumored to be excellent in
the area.

BV boasts a number of other

ABC store has recently been
closed down, leaving Lexington
as the only viable source of
liquor in the area. BV, however,

is proud to boast the best soft- ‘

serve ice cream in the area. Also,
there is a top-notch Army surplus
store in town. Another fine
establishment is BV’s gun store.
For affordable shopping, visit
Frugal Elegance, conveniently
located next door to Paradise
Isle.

Overall, Buena Vista is a quaint
country town with many appealing
traits. It is deﬁnitely worth at least

I Mas/umivsmirjic i
scenic overlooks located on the Blue Ridge Parkway, quite possibly the most physically attractive road
in all of Virginia. A map (right) of the region, featuring both Lexington and Buena Vista shows ‘how
close the two cities are to each other and their respective locations on the local highways. '

students, but also with new and

disinfect the beds, but also provide

for formal date function regalia.

no way short on lovely sites. It is

‘Chicago’ will win big with all that jazz

BY MAC VERSTANDIG
BADGER HERALD (U. WiscoNsrN)

(U-WIRE) MADISON, Wis. - It was April 14, 1969
when the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences
named the hit musical “Oliver! ” best picture. The trend
since then has been clear: words over songs.

The motion-picture musical more or less died by the mid-
1970s and was aptly absent from the Oscars for the duration of
the 20th century. But then a new millennium and old art fonn
came about in unison and Baz Luhrmarm’s “Moulin Rouge!”
had audiences abuzz with melody just over a year ago.

The motion-picture musical is back, and nothing will
evidence this more than when, March 23 , 2003, the
Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences will name
the hit musical “Chicago” best picture. Yes, it is inevitable.

Notorious Oscar-purchaser Mirarnax has groomed
“Chicago” for awards of greatness since its birth. And the
ﬁlm has been gaining momentum at a ridiculous pace.

First it practically swept the critics’ guilds (note the
word “practically” — ironically, the picture didn’t with the
Chicago Film Critics Association Awards). Then the ﬁlm
took the Golden Globe. And just this past weekend it
ambushed the Screen Actors Guild Awards. If Mirarnax
would drag the campaign out a few more months, the
musical could probably snatch the Nobel Peace Prize.

Of course, to create the appearance of competition,
four other ﬁlms —— “The Pianist,” “Gangs of New York,”
“The Hours” and ‘The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers”
~”- are nominated. Kid yourself not; they stand no chance.

“The Hours” is nominated for nine awards (a paltry count
compared to the 13 racked up by “Chicago”) and did win the
Golden Globe for Best Drama. But its Virginia Woolf subj ect
matter is a tad highbrow for the Academy’s popcorn taste.

“Gangs ofNew York” is also being backed by Miramax
and did manage 10 nominations. But the ﬁlm seems to be
more of a showcase for Daniel Day-Lewis than an actual
collaborative effort, and its poor public reception should
severely hamper its odds of winning.

“The Pianist” has seven nominations but has yet to win a
serious precursor award and, resultantly, has no momentum.
Also, the Holocaust theme might be a bit dark asAmerica ﬁnds
itselfon the brink of war and seeking lighter fonns of escapism.

' As for the extremely popular “The Lord of the Rings:
The Two Towers,” it just isn’t Academy material. Despite
being based on J. R. R. Tolkien’s classic novel, the ﬁlm is
perceived as a lowbrow venture driven by special effects.
Count on it sweeping the technical awards, but it will follow
the way of “Star Wars” and miss the big award.

The other major award being considered here is Best

Director. A number of cinema pundits, this critic included,
are of the belief that the best—directed ﬁlm of the year is
inherently the best picture, as the two are truly
synonymous. However, from time to time, the Academy
has seen ﬁt to split the honors.

Peter Jackson, the director of “The Lord of the Rings:
The Two Towers” is not nominated for the award. Rather,
Pedro Almodovar, who helmed “Hable con ella,” has taken
his place. Almodovar has garnered great note in recent years
for his ﬁlm “Todo Sobre Mi Madre.” But this isAlmodovar’s
first Oscar nomination, and it is reasonable to assume that
he will not go home a winner with a subtitled piece.

Stephen Daldry directs “The Hours.” This is his second
nomination, having received one for “Billy Elliot” two years
ago. Daldry, however, does nothing to distinguish himself
sufﬁciently from his ﬁlm such that the Academy would go
out on a limb and split awards for him.

Martin Scorsese, who is widely considered to be one
of the ﬁnest directors in Hollywood to have not won an
Oscar, directs “Gangs of New York.” This is his ﬁfth
nomination, the ﬁrst having come over 20 years ago for
“Raging Bull.” If a split is to occur, it is possible the that
Academy would send “Gangs of New York” home a loser

Rn\vuwAGEsoo.\rcAsrNEr/ir)viEALscAts/ 800sY600/ CH1cAco.}i>c

and still bestow directing honors upon Scorsese as a
loosely-veiled lifetirne-achievement award.

Perhaps the most interesting of the directorial
nominees is Roman Polanski. This is his fourth nomination,
with previous nods for “Rosemary’s Baby” in 1969,
“Chinatown” in 1975 and “Tess” in 1981.

ButPo1anski’sﬁlmsarea1lbores coniparedtohislife story.
Hiswife, SharonTate,wasrriurderediril969byChariesMansor1’s
gang. She was eightmonths pregnant atthe time.Aﬁermouming
her loss, Polanski found a new girlﬁiend and started to move on
The onlyproblernwas thathisnew lovewas 13 years old

Polanski is currently wanted in the United States on charges
ofstatutoryrapearidhasbeeninexi1esincel978.Ifheatterriptsto
enter the country for the Oscars, he will likely be arrested

Assuming the Academy doesn’t split votes on the
awards and give the honor to Scorsese or make some sort
of radical statement by bestowing it upon Polanski, Best
Director should go to Rob Marshall, who helrned “Chicago.”

A native of Madison, Wis., Marshall makes his big-
screen debut with “Chicago.” And quite. the debut it has
been. Count on Marshall winning an Oscar for Best
Director as the motion picture musical makes its long-

awaited return to the Academy Awards March 23.

attractions as well.

  

Sadly, the

Now Playing...

one visit, if not many.

The upcoming ﬁlms offered in Lexington

FROM STAFF REPOKTS

W&L Film Society

The W&L Film Society met this week and
selected two more ﬁlms for the current year’s
schedule. Additional selections may be announced
shortly.

March 28 & 29

ZSTHHOUR

(USA, 2002), directed by Spike Lee
Rated “R.”

April 25 &' 26

ADAPTATION

(USA, 2002), directed by Spike Jonze
Rated “R.”

All showing are scheduled for 7:30 PM, in the

Troubadour Cinema, with no admission charge.

And, no, we did not deliberately choose ﬁlms by A

people named “Spike.”

The State

The State movie theater is located on 12 E. Nelson *
St. in Lexington. Tickets at The State cost $6.50 for’

adults and $5 for children and senior citizens. Movie
times for this week are as follows:
“How to Lose a Guy in Ten Days”: 2, 7, 9220
“Old School’’- 2:10, 7:10, 9:25
“Tears of the Sun”— 2:05, 7, 9:20

The matinee times are available only on Saturday
and Sunday. The evening times are available every
day of the week.

Valley Cinemas

Valley Cinemas are located at 2275 Beech Ave. in
Buena Vista. Tickets for all customers and all show-
ings are $3. The following ﬁlms will be showing this
coming week:

“Time Changer”-

Monday-Friday: 7

Saturday: 3, 7, 9

Sunday: 3, 7
“Daredevil”-

Monday-Friday: 7

Saturday: 3, 7, 9

Sunday: 3, 7

 

 

    

.ERiN ULIUS
SRORIS EDIIOR

EMAI; ]U11USE@W1lJ.EDU

TIIERING-TUAIPIII

‘MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 2003

BY MARY CHRISTOPHER
SPORTS WRITER

xv Bright and early Saturday mom-
ing, the Washington and Lee Track
team was ready and eager to com-
pete in its ﬁrst outdoor meet of the
season. Having gained many new

_ Yvaluable members for the season, the

I coaches were anxiously awaiting the

i performances of the runners. Head
Coach John Tucker constantly re-
minds the runners that they need to
be both “excited and relaxed” to
have a strong race, and this mix was
certainly present among the Gener-
als.

Y There were 14 teams present at
the Invitational, which led to ﬁerce
competition for the runners, yet both
the men and women performed

‘strongly. The women ﬁnished 6th
with an overall score of 33 points,
while John Carroll University took
5th with 56 points, Frostburg State
University 4th with 63, Centre Col-

ylege came in third with 64 points,
runner-up Roanoke college scored
98 points, and Susqueharma Univer-
sity was victorious with their score

of 105.

I The men also had great perfor-
mances resulting in their 7th place
ﬁnish with a score of 29 points. John
Carroll University (118),
gsusquehanna University (94.50),

Centre College (64), Desales Univer-
sity (45), Bridgewater College (45),
and Frostburg State University (42)
were the top scorers for the men.
*4 The throwers, jumpers, and many
wonderful volunteers, were the first
ones to arrive at the meet. Angel
Daniels received a 7tl1 place ﬁnish for
1, her jump of 4’08'and Meredith Walker
did well in the long jump with a dis-
tance of 15’02.75"—— a 5th place ﬁn-
ish.
Chris Sullivan won the long j11rnp
V" for the men and Brian Krupczak took
4th. In the shot put, Washington and
Lee» had Ia,Yer.y. strong s11<‘>.Yvins{sé=:c.-

34’l1.00" l0.64m and 5th place
Audrey Walker threw 33’04.25"
10. 17m. For the men, Brian Gallagher
and Chris Walker took 10th and 13th
with 35 and 33’06 throws.

*4 In the discus throw, Emily
Barker threw 102’02.50", Lauren

. Men’s tennis remains unde ez 

BY ALLISON PERRY
SPORTS WRITER

Ir Washington and Lee men’s ten-
nis team continued their unbroken
winning streak this past week. First,
they shut down Eastern Mennonite
on the road Tuesday, 7-0, in ODAC

7 action. The Generals also defeated
Denison, 5-2, on Wednesday, and
Sewanee, 6-1 , on Thursday. Both
matches were played at home. The

V men improved their record to 8-0 over-
all, and 4-0 in the ODAC.

Against Eastern Mennonite Tues-
day, senior Chris Sorenson led the 14"‘
ranked Generals with a 6-4, 6-4 win at

7 No. 1 singles. Sophomore David
Ellison shut down his opponent 6-0, 6-
0 at No. 2. Freshmen Rares Trocan
and Chris Kimmel defeated their oppo-

,3, nents 6-2, 6-0 and 6-3, 6-4 atNo. 3 and
4, respectively. Junior Tim Moll won
his match 6-4, 6-2 at No. 5 while fresh-
man Reid Bruner rounded out the top
six with a 6-2, 6-0 win.

I’ In doubles action, Ellison and
Kimmel teamed up to win their match
8-4 at No. 1. Sorenson and Trocan
knocked off their opponents 8-1 in the

., No. 2 spot. Moll and Brimer also won
their match 8-2 at No. 3.

At home on Wednesday,
Denison player Jeronie Barnes de-
feated sophomore Paul McClure in a

4 close match of6-7 (6), 6-4, 7-5 inNo. 1
singles. Barnes is ranked 50”‘ in the
nation.

At No. 2, junior captain Austin

A Kim won his match 7-6, 7-5. Junior
captain Graham Nix also defeated
his opponent with a 6-3, 6-0 win at
No. 3. Junior K.C. Schaefer and
freshmen David Shay and Jordan

‘I! Eichenberger defeated their oppo-
nents 6-0, 6-0; 6-3, 7-6 (6); and 6-4,
6-1, respectively.

In doubles, Kim and Nix were de-

-1’

 

0nd place ﬁnisher Emily Barker threw .

Egbert 84’06.00" 25.76m, and
Audrey Walker 79’O9.50" 24.32m;
the girls finished 3rd, 10th, and
13th. In the Javelin throw, Bethany
Dannelly had an excellent second
place performance as did Emily
Barker who ﬁnished 8th. Chris
Sullivan and Matt Watson ﬁnished
6th and 7th in the same event for
the men.

In the 100 meter Dash Meredith
Walker came in 7th with her time of
13.86 and achieved 7th in the 200m
dash as well with her time of 29.08
with sophomore Kim Gunst close be-
hind with a time of 29.81.
Moving up in distance to the 800m
run, Liz Twentyman had an excellent
performance that put her in 9th place,
with her personal record time for the
year of 2:37:10. In the 1500m dash
freshman Mary Christopher and
Megan Ward performed well with
times of 5: 19:93 and 5:21:73, giving
them 4th and 5th place ﬁnishes, with
Erin Johnson not far behind in 11th
place.

In the 5,000m run, a 3 mile race
on the track, many Washington and
Lee runners fought the distance and
showed strong performances and
potential for the rest of the season.

Betsy Frayer was the top performer
in the even with her time of 20:20:90
and a 7th place ﬁnish. Behind her
were runners Jessica Remmert in 14th
place with a time of 21:34.41, and
Ashley Brown in 16th place with a
time of 22:27:97.

In the 100m dash for the men
Chris Sullivan placed second with
1 1.27, and Jonathan Brimer ﬁnished
9thwithatime of11.70. Inthe 200m
Brian Krupczak ﬁnished 5th with a
time of 22.99, while Jonathan Brimer
ran23.53,puttinghimin9th place. In
the 400m dash Brimer ﬁnished 9th
with a time of 52.42.
For the men’s distance events Matt
Reilly performed well in the 800m a.r1d
Andrew Johnson and Rusty Meyer
ran ‘well in_tl_i1_e Isoom with times bf
4:17:75 and 4:18:40, 10th and 11th
place ﬁnishes.

For the relays the 4 by 100m
women’s team ﬁnished 7th and the
two 4 by 400m women’s teams fm-
ished 6th and 8th. The men’s 4 by
100m then finished 4th
When asking Distance Head Coach

feated 8-5 in the No. 1 spot. McClure
and Shay lost a close match of 9-8
(3) at No. 2. Schaefer and Kimmel
were also defeated in the No. 3 spot,
86.

Kim has been pleased with the
way the freshmen are playing this
year. Shay and Eichenberger usually
round out the top six. Kimmel has
also been playing well.

“Chris is a good, solid player,”
Kim said. “He usually plays No. 3
doubles.”

The Generals kept the same line-
up for Thursday’s match at home
against Sewanee. McClure led the
team with a 5-7, 6-1, 6-4 win at No. 1
singles. Kim won his match 7-6 (5), 6-
2 in the No. 2 spot. Nix defeated his
opponent 6-3, 6-3. At No. 4, Schaefer
had a 6-3, 6-0 victory. Shay and
Eichenberger won their matches 6-3,
4-6, 7-5 and 3-6, 6-4, 6-0 at No. 5 and 6,
respectively.

, In doubles play, Kim and Nix were
defeated 8-5 at No. 1. They are cur-
rently the l 1"‘ ranked doubles team in
the Atlantic South region. McClure
and Shay won their match 8-5 at No.
2. Schaefer and Kimmel were de-
feated 8-5 in No. 3 doubles.

The men also had matches
against Salisbury and Lynchburg on
Sunday. Results were not available
at press time.

Kim thinks Salisbury is a solid
team, but he is looking ahead to the
match against Mary Washington on
Saturday. Mary Washington is
ranked 8"‘ in the nation.

“We beat them last year [in na-
tiona1s],” Kim said. “We ended it for
them, so they’re out for us. We are
the underdogs, but it’s going to be a
war.”

The Generals next play on
Wednesday at Emory and Henry at
4:00pm.

PORTS
.W&L Invitational

‘ I

FINISH LINE. (Above) Sophomore Casey Sharp ran the 400-meter race at the
Washington and Lee Invitational held this past Saturday. (Below) Spectators

'2. *-'~.~ '
KAIIE HOWELL/ The Ring!-/um Pbi

proves usccessful for Generals

9
1

no

n
.«I

5...

KATIE HowELL/ T/ye Ring-tum Phi: 3‘

I
‘I

PAGE 7 {-

A

.23

|~<.'.»

 

from area schools came during the warm, sunny weather on Saturday to view,r,

the event.

Amy Schuckert about the meet she
felt that “the beautiful weather was
accompanied by some great perfor-
mances for the men’s and women’s
track teams. It was nice to finally be
outdoors and run on a full-sized
track. I know the distance runners
beneﬁted from moving outside and
off of the tight turns of the indoor
track.”

She commented on the remark-
able ﬁnishes of some of the distance
runners: “We had some season best
performances by Liz Twentyman in
the 800 with a 2:37.10. Mary Chris-

topher nearly equaledher best
I had a good day. Matt Reilley had a»;

l500m—only a few tenths of a sec-
ond off of her PR (personal record)
with her 5: 19.93 (4th place). Aston-
ishingly, in her ﬁrst performance of
the season, Megan Ward ran a
5:21.73 en route to a 5th place over-
all ﬁnish. Perhaps even more im-

pressive, is the fact that she did so\’
by capturing a win in the slower sec-:-,

tion of the event. Erin Johnson had
a season best of 5:32.98 in the 1500m.

After suffering from an injury mostlﬁg“

of the indoor season, Betsy Frayer
opened her outdoor season by tum-
ing in a superb performance in the
5k with a time of 20:20.90. Her ef-
forts earned her 7th place. Jessica
Remmert had an outstanding 5,000m ,
with her career best of 2l:34.41;f'
Ashley Brown and Sarah»\
Williamson also turned in debut per-
formances in the 5,000m. On the;

men’s side, the distance runners also.-‘

season best in the 800m—running,
almost a full second faster than his.”
best indoor 800. Additionally, An-9
drew Johnson’s 4:17.75, and Rustya
Meyer’s 4: 18.40 were season PRs in
the 1500m.” 9

Women’s tennis knock off two in ODACS

BY ALLISON PERRY
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s tennis team
knocked off Denison, Randolph-Macon,
Bridgewater, and Sewanee this past week. The
women improved their record to 10-0, 6-0 in the
ODAC.

The second ranked Generals defeated Denison
7-2 on Tuesday. Denison is tied for twelfth place
in national rankings.

Sophomore Lindsay Hagerman led the women
with a 6-2, 6-2 win in the No. 1 singles match. Se-
nior captain Laura Bruno defeated her opponent
in a close match of 7-6 (0), 7-6 (6) in the No. 2 spot.
In the No. 3 singles match, senior captain Erika
Proko won her match 6- 1, 6- l . Senior Brandi Jane
Wedgeworth was defeated by Alison Hughes in a
close match of 6-4, 7-6 (7) in the No. 4 spot. In the
No. 5 and 6 singles, freshman Lisa Mabry and jun-
ior Liz Law defeated their opponents 3-6, 6-2, 6-2
and 6-3, 7-6 (4), respectively.

In doubles play, the ﬁfth ranked doubles team
of Hagerman and Proko defeated their opponents
8-6 at No. 1. Due to an injury, Allison Lesnet took
the place of 13”‘ ranked Lauren Gerlach in
Denison’s No. 1 doubles match. Gerhlach and
Hughes are ranked seventh in the nation in doubles
play.

Bruno and Mabry won their match 8-5 at No.
2. Junior Ellie Simpson and sophomore Marie

Trimble were defeated in a tight match of 9-8 (8) in
No. 3 doubles. ‘

On Wednesday, the women shut down
Randolph Macon at home, 9-0, and Bridgewater
on the road, 9-0. ,

In the match against Randolph Macon,
Proko easily won her match 6-0, 6-1 at No. 1
singles. Freshman Megan Curran played in the
No. 2 spot, defeating her opponent 6-2, 6-1.
Freshman Patty Roberts also won her match at
No. 3, 6-1, 6-1. In the No.4, 5, and 6 singles,
sophomores Meredith Bailey and Catherine
Torrey Stroud and freshman Stephanie Harmon
defeated their opponents 6-1, 6-0; 6-3, 6-1; and
6-0, 6-0, respectively.

In doubles action, Curran and Proko teamed
up to win their match 8-1 at No. 1. Harmon and
Roberts also won their match with an 8-4 victory
in No. 2 doubles. Bailey and Stroud shut down
their opponents 8-0 at No. 3.

At Bridgewater, Wedgeworth led at No. 1
with a victory of 6-3, 6-1. Law and freshman
Ingrid Easton shut down their opponents both
6-0, 6-0 at No. 2 and No. 3, respectively. Junior
Emily Taylor knocked off her opponent 6-0, 6-3
at No. 4. Freshman Laura Neller won her match
6-1, 6-0 in the No. 5 spot. Sophomore Kristine
Crawford rounded out the top six with a 6-0, 6-1
win.

In doubles, Wedgeworth and Law won their
match 8-1 at No. 1. The teams of Easton and

Neller, and Taylor and freshman Lauren Peters shut
down their opponents both 8-0 at No. 2 and No. 3,
respectively.
On Thursday, the Generals defeated Sewanee.,
9-O. Parts of the match were delayed slightly due‘.
to rain. Sewanee has a record of 6-3. A
Hagerman led the Generals with a win of 6-1,
6-4 at No. 1 singles. Bruno knocked off her oppo-,_
nent 7-5, 6-4 at No. 2. In the No. 3 singles match,g’,
Proko defeated her opponent 6-1, 6-1 . Wedgeworth‘
and Mabry won their matches 6-3, 6-2 and 6-2, 6-2.;
at No. 4 and 5, respectively. Law won with a vic-
tory of 6-0, 6-2 at No. 6. .,
In doubles play, Hagerman and Proko teamed,_
up to win their match 8-4 at No. 1. Bruno and,
Mabry also won 8-4 at No. 2. Law and Trimble had
an 8-5 victory at No. 3. ,-
The women also had matches on Sunday.
against Lynchburg and 17"‘ ranked Salisbury. Re-
sults were not available at press time. V.
Senior captain Erika Proko is ranked 26”‘ na-;
tionally in singles. She did not expect any sur-f.
prises in Sunday’s matches. _,‘
“We had a really good match against
Denison,” Proko said. “If we play the way we’ve:
been playing, we expect it to be easy across the
board.” f;
The Generals next play tomorrow at home.
against Eastern Mennonite at 3 :30 p.m. and on the
road against Randolph-Macon Woman’s College
at 4:30 p.m. I

    

VICTORY. W&L lacrossetearn members celebrat e a goal during Saturday’s game.

JEE BROOKS/ The Ring-tum P/21'

Women’s Lax wins

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Washington and Lee’s women’s lacrosse team defeated
Nazareth 10-7 in a match played Saturday afternoon at the Lib-
erty Hall Fields. The Generals, ranked 13th, had fourteammem-°'
bers score two goals apiece. Kristen Brown, Kitt Murphy, Kelly
Taﬂe and Lee Wheeler were all responsible for two goals apiece
while Leslie Bogart and Katharine Lesterwere each responsible
for one goal. In goal, Joanna Perini was recorded eight savesf;

The Generals next take the ﬁeld on Wednesday in a
4:30 home match against Hollins. They also play Saturg
day in match played at Mary Washington at 2 p.m. ’

    

PAGE 8

 

 
 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 2002

Sibiiis

NCAA awards
scholarship osenior

BY ERIN JULIUS
SPORTS EDITOR

Senior John Melillo has been
awarded a postgraduate scholarship
from the NCAA. This scholarship was
awarded based on both athleticism
and scholarship, as nominations are
limited to those who have, “performed
with distinction as members of var-
sity teams in the sport in which they
are nominated,” and must, “have a
minimum grade-point average of 3.2.”
Melillo clearly exempliﬁes athleticism
and scholarship. He has started for
the W&L’s football team for four
years and is a Robert E. Lee Honor
Scholar.

Melillo maintains a 4.025 grade-
point average and has made the Honor

 

Melillo played football for two
years in middle school, four years in
high school and four years at W&L.
He started playing because “my dad’s
a football coach. . .when I got together
with friends we
played pick—up
games and then
I started playing
in middle
school,” he said.

While at
W&L, Melillo
was a left guard
and started for
three years, “I
got hurt sopho-
more year. I got a torn ACL in the 5th
game so I was out for the rest of the
season,” he said, “that’s the year I

MELILLO

Roll every year of didn’t start.”
his college ca- While on
men I LOVE FOOTBALL AND I’LL MISS w&L»S offensive
 lI1- PLAYING THE GAME line, 
tends to use the helped lead the
grant to attend JOHN MELILLO running backs to
graduate school, break the 1,000-
where he will ~ yard barrier each

study English. He has applied to the
University of Texas, Yale, NYU and
the University of Chicago. “My ﬁrst
choice is a toss-up between NYU or
Yale, if I get into the latter,” he said.
Melillo has been accepted to both
NYU and the University of Chicago.

Eventually, Melillo would like to
get a phD in English and teach at the
college level. He does not, however,
wish to pursue football as a coach.

“I’ve seen it from the negative
side, because my dad coaches.
People see it as a way to be young
forever but it is very political and you
have to deal with parents. It’s not
about winning football games, it’s
about being political,” he said.

He began playing organized foot-
ball during his middle school years
because, “it’s fun. . .it’s a great social
activity. . .it was good for me—disci-
pline, toughness, teamwork—these
are all great skills for real life, of
course, when I first started playing as
a little kid, I didn’t see that, but I
learned fairly quickly.

Division I Mon’: Brackets
ﬁHi&v%1I
rxsmnmim

    

V »Beam.cr(PN2)
A Looking for something bigger?

  Check out the new Alpha 250

season and allow only 22 sacks in over
500 pass attempts in the last two sea-
sons.

Melillo chose W&L after look-
ing at several Division I schools such
as Harvard and Rice. “They have re-
ally good programs and I would have
tried to walk on to a team there,” he
said.

“When I was thinking about col-
lege, I saw that I could play at W&L,
it was an extra bonus. . .W&L was the
best combination of all things—
great scholarship, great school, the
fact that I could still play football,”
he said.

“I love football and I’ll miss play-
ing the game,” said Melillo.

The one-time grant, in the
amount of $6,900, is awarded to par-
ticipants in fall, winter and spring
sports. 58 scholarships are awarded
to each category- 29 for men and 29
for women.

Melillo is the 20th athlete to re-
ceive an NCAA Postgraduate Schol-
arship since 1970.

Jmoif/rm ii/'7/"mgr rrfrii

on a new Scooter from

ooismo areairaie isporemis

2040 Magnolia Ave
Buena Vista Va. 24416
_ (540)261-6460

V- Twin

TErENi<AL rOLL

Tar-;i<EsA ANI)ERSO.\J / The Ring-I147/1Phi

SHOT CLOCK. Dean of Students David Howison takes a shot into a Pi
Kappa Phi freshmarfs “basket” outside the Co-op one afternoon this week
Pledges from many of the fraternities could be seen participating in “goofy”
activities this past week, known to many as “Hell Week” New state legislation
may crack down on even these hainless antics if a new bill passes that could
make federal francial aid revocation a punishment for hazers. For more
information on the bill, see http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi—bin/query/

z?c108:H.Rl207:.

no special license or
V tags required
Must be 116 to operate
on highway

Baseball streak continues‘

Generals take wins in three home games,

improves record to 9-2, 3-2 ODAC

BY JOHN HYLANI)
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee base-
ball team keeps rolling, winning a total
of three home games last week to con-
tinue a seven game winning streak and
improve their record to 9-2 overall, 3-1
ODAC. The Generals are a perfect 5-0
at Cap’n Dick Smith Field this season.
The team took two wins from Division
H West Virginia Tech last Sunday to
drop Tech’s overall record to 3-3. The
Generals then defeated Mount
Aloysius last Tuesday, preventing the
Mounties from earning their ﬁrst vic-
tory of the season and drop their record
to 0-4.

Ir1Game 1 last Sunday, WestVrrginia
Techopenedup aneariy4-l leadbefore
the Generals came back to score two runs
inthe secondirrningandfournmsinthe
thirdim1ingtoopenupa7-5 leadtfnatthey
would not relinquish in a 12-7 victory. The
Generalsscoredinﬁveofthesixinnings
that they batted and were led offensively
by sophomore catcher Zach Bausch who
was2 for2withtwodoub1es,awalk, two
rur1sscoredandfourRBIs.Histworun
double inthethirrdinninghelpedbreakﬂie
game open Junior leﬂﬁelder Dan Kagey
was 3 for3 ontheafternoon,withawalk,
threeruns scoredandanRBI. Seniorﬁrst
baseman Dan Gladysz provided some in-
suranoewithasolohornerumhisﬁrstof
the season,inthe  Juniorright
handerMikeWertpitchedaoomplete game
seven innings for the Generals to improve
his recordto2-0.

In the nightcap, the Generals
scored two runs in the first inning to
give themselves all of the offense they
would need as they cruised to a 4-0
victory. Senior shortstop Michael
Hanson led off the first inning with a
walk and then stole second to become
the Generals career leader in stolen
bases with 41. He then scored on an
RBI single by senior centerﬁelder
Bobby Littlehale. Junior pitcher Bryan
Mulhem then doubled to center to
drive in Littlehale. Mulhern and
Littlehale each had two hits to give
the Generals their only four of the
game. But the story of the game was
Mulhem’s masterful pitching perfor-

mance. The right hander threw a four-
hit complete game shutout to earn his
second victory of the season. He
struck out four and did not allow a
walk

On Tuesday, the Generals scored

‘D

two 111118 in the ﬁrst inning against,

Mount Aloysius on a two run single
by Mulhem. Both runs were unearned
and were the first of seven unearned
runs for the game, thanks to a total of

seven Mount Aloysius errors that‘!

greatly helped the Generals cause.
The Mounties scored two runs in the
second to tie the score. W&L took
the lead for good in the fourth inning
on a two-nm homer by freshman third
baseman Scott Gosselink, the ﬁrst of
his career. Gosselink’s homer started
a ﬁve run inning that broke the game

Y.

open and ended in a 10-5 victory that 7-

marked the ﬁfth time in eleven games
that the Generals have scored at least
ten runs. Littlehale was 2 for 5 with a

run scored and two RBI for the game. ’

Junior leﬁ hander Peter Dean pitched
only the first two innings for the Gen-
erals in the hopes of not wearing out
his arm alter pitching seven innings

the previous Saturday against,
Hamden-Sydney. Manager Jeff ’

Stickley utilized a pair of right handed
sophomores to close out the game.
Ken Hackman earned his ﬁrst victory
of the season while Brian Higgins
pitched the ﬁnal ﬁve innings of the
game, allowing zero runs, to earn his
ﬁrst save of the season.

The team returned to ODAC play .
with a doubleheader at Randolph-Ma-
con Saturday. Sophomore outﬁelder
Warren Hunter believes, “This is a big
doubleheader for us. All of our pitch-
ers are well rested and we would like
to build momentum entering a long
stretch of conference games.” The
Randolph-Macon doubleheader is the
beginning of a ﬁfteen game stretch
before the ODAC tournament in
which the Generals play only three
non-conference games. The Generals
will play host to perennial conference
powerhouse Bridgewater on Wednes-
day at 3:00. This stretch will deﬁne
the Generals season in their hopes of
winning an ODAC championship.

Are you getting the picture?

 

I jI‘I ﬂI‘II I —HI-II -HI-II TH

Y

‘Y

7

IX IITlI‘IITl.- I IITIIZIITI yr

DIXIE DIVAS 

BOUTIQUE

x
1‘
Winter Madness 9:] I e

5573')’ Yorrwoxf Jwécy Couture ,,

BCBGi\r’lA.§<&3R§a’?s
“CHANGING CHA Lm ONE DRESS AT A TIME”

107 Fjliewood Ave. On the UVA Comer

  

1/

245—22 17 A‘,
\

 

