 

 
 

    

t 73 .755
T1557.
   . 
 ‘I’ WRSEINCTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY  I
THE PHI WISHES 1 1 = J ‘ L = 1 “ X A ' ' Ft-3'.;\’l‘t.3l{.ti}'.S 1
W&L A GREAT . OI-"tNlC_>NS 2
SUMMER A 1 sp(jm~g 3,
‘I. Q
\7OI,I.',tII:C\§NO.ll’ T“ lI,ta:~;I?\?t;I'«I:\:.\’éII(;Ix;.I3-1430 :‘\lt:\5)‘«‘:',MD27.

‘Customs’ after-orientation program
junked for individual ha/I programs

9! STAFF REFoRrs

Last year’s Customs program will not be return-
irig, said Dean of Freshman Dawn Watkins.

“We did not have the turnout we originally envi-

.,t sioned,” Watkins said.

The Customs program rewarded students for at-
tending a series of events, mostly student health is-
sues. Participating students had their ID cards swiped,
which simulated “stamping their passport.”

Only seven students completed the program, each
of whom was given a reward ranging from a DVD player
to a stuffed animal.

Watkins believes students were too busy with

a “campus commitments,” not necessarily social, to add
one further things into burdgeoning day planners.

All information in the future will be disseminated
through mandatory hall meetings.

Dorm counselors will lead the discussions.

STAFF REPORTS

The ﬁlm “Skin Deep”is the proposed cen-
terpiece for the multicultural sensitivity portion
of next year’s freshmen orientation.

“Dean (of Freshmen Dawn) Watkins and I

plan to expose the students to “Skin Deep,” a
documentary about college students confront-
ing racism,” said Associate Dean of Students
Courtney Penn, in an email to potential pre-
senters. .
“Skin Deep” is a 53—n1inute documentary
ﬁlm on college students confronting racism.
According to its webpage (http://
www.irisfilms.org/SD/index2.html), “ ‘Skin
Deep’ was conceived as a tool for sparking dis-
cussion about race and racism. The ﬁlm, along
with the facilitation guide, allows teachers or
group leaders of any kind create an ideal envi-
romnent for genuine exchange.”

‘' The ﬁlm will be introduced by then-Presi-
dent Tom Burish. Discussions will be led by
volunteers, mostly drawn from the ranks of the
Minority Student Association and Promoting
Respect of Individual Diversity in Education.

“The subsequent discussion about the
video . . . is a powerful video that sets a tone for
our expectations for members of our commu-
nity,” Penn said.

About 30 volunteers are needed to assist
Dorm Counselor in facilitating
discussion of the video. Volunteers previewed
the film last week in Northen
Auditorium.

This ﬁlm replaces last year’s play , “which
was not well received by students,”Watkins
said.

“It wasn’t really geared to (college
students)’levels,”Watkins said. “This (film)

Freshmen programs   revised for Class of 2006

" Students trained to lead diversity conversations; new video rep/aces previous anti-discrimination plays

  

COUR ' WW D0(,l '.\lE\Tf.Cl').l‘K

LEI"s TALK ABOUT IT. ‘Skin Deepfa film produced and directed by Frances Reid, explores campus race relations
by intervewing students at Amherst, Texas A&M and UC Berkeley.

' K

,REr>oRT: ePom plagues
. W &L common drive

5‘,

I. .

  

BY PETER DJALALIEV
INTERNET EDITOR

Washington and Lee University has always
provided vast amounts of freedom to its stu-
dents. Maybe not many people know about
this, but this freedom includes the ability to dis-

‘tribute and download adult pornography

through the university computer network. For
those who do not know, the K:\ drive contains
around 300 video files, of which at least 200 con-
tain adult scenes. The drive and all its contents
are accessible to everyone connected to the
Novell network.

Most people believe it neither legal nor
moral to distribute adult materials on computer
resources provided to students for educational
purposes. However, delving deeper into the is-
siﬁnit appears that both the illegality and the
in orality of distribution are questionable.

Legally, no governmental legislation is pow-
erful enough to prohibit students from copying
adult materials on educational institu-
tions’computer networks. Well, nearly none. 
VMI cadet was recently dismissed after federal
ofﬁcials prosecuted him for possession of adult
materials with intent to distribute. However, this
single cases revolved around a member of a US
military institution. The federal government nearly
only concerns itself is distribution of child por-

_ no graphy.

Morally, there is no university policy against
pornography, so the practical Honor System
application of “don’t lie, cheat or steal” does
not apply. Even though University Computing

Greek system nationally rec

4

provides students with the network resources
for educational purposes, the K:\ drive is a con-
trol—free environment.

“We do not supervise the contents of the
K: drive,” said John Stuckey, department head.
“We provide this space to students so that they
can have a temporary storage for their ﬁles in
cases of need. If we get a speciﬁc complain from
a student about speciﬁc ﬁles on the drive, we
will go and delete them.”

No controversy surrounds whether Univer-
sity Computing should limit K:\ drive access.
Not having a K:\ drive would deprive students
of a useful resource; prohibiting students from

storing video ﬁles will prevent some students v -

from sharing important class or experimental
work. Direct control over the shared drive’s con-
tents has obviously negative academic results.

What most pommongerers do not know is
that administrators can always look up the per-
son who copied a speciﬁc ﬁle on the K:\ drive.
It is an extremely easy operation. Looking at
some authors will reveal the names of some W&L
faculty members. Of course, there is always the
chance that someone has been using another’s
account without his knowledge.

The issue has no easy solution. The K:\
drive is meant for temporary storage and shar-
ing of ﬁles. Disabling this drive or controlling
its contents would be academically disadvanta-
geous. Would "prohibiting students to share
video (or any) ﬁles be more advantageous than
disadvantageous? Do we prefer to have moral-
ity enforced by rules or afreedom that encour-
ages, but does not forcibly ensure, morality?

 .35

PHOIO URTESY SH SU ORDER OF THE OMEGA

A OMEGA. This national organizationwas foundedin 1959 to recognize leaders in inter—Greek activities. There are over400 chapters nationwide.

W&L chapter of Omega Order founded to ﬁght “negative Greek stereotypes”

BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTT
EDITOR IN CHIEF

The Order of Omega, a national honorary
recognizing outstanding Greek leaders, has es-

‘'1 tablished at W&L its 437th chapter.

>1‘.

I

“With such a strong Greek community at
W&L, it made natural sense to charter a local
chapter,” said senior Rebekah Ahn.

Ahn learned about the Order after an in-
ternship at Kappa Alpha national headquaters,
said Associate Dean of Students Leroy Atkins,
and has been the driving force behind it.

lnter—Fraternity Council President Chris _

Pickens and Panhellenic Council President Eliza-
beth Saxton “have gone beyond their duties as
Greek ofﬁcers inhelping to get Order of Omega
started,” Ahn said.

“I said that I would support this proposed
organization as long as it had a reason to exist,”
Atkins said. “We didn’t want another organiza-

tion to honor the same people that probably
(Omicron Delta Kappa) or Phi Beta Kappa were.”
That reason, Atkins said, was to publizce posi-
tive aspects of Greek, “since (Greek organization)
can get negative publicitiy without any trouble.”
To this end an armual to semiannual news-
letter will be published “to highlight the more
positive aspects of W&L’s Greek system.
“While it is structured as an honorary, the ac-
tive role of Order of Omega at W&L will be to cast
the focus on positive aspects of Greek life . . 
Membership is restricted to juniors and se-
niors with the top 3 percent Greek GPA’ s. Next year’s
senior members are Diane Averyt, Wogan Bernard,
Andrew Borda, Bryan Carmody, Janet Carter,
Lindsey Duran, Andy Folsom, Avery Gholston, An-
drew I-lirsekom, Skye Justice, Wﬂliarn Kuntz, Jane
Ledlie, Trey Packard, Raphael Penteado, Chris
Pickens, Kempton Presley,Elizabetl1 Saxton, Julia
Simmons, Claire Smith, Reanna Stahl, Sarah Sturtz,
Carroll Thompson and Michael Watts.

should be better.”

W&L IN A FISHBOWL

. h 0.
“Dorms__.Lik

-« “HOmogeneOus.St1_1

    No. 14,
. “Lots of hard liquor”

No. 19
“Most Beautiful Campus”

  No. 19
“"l’lie,;Be§t Quality of Lif _”

. _ .. - ‘,PllO10_l‘£3BR00}$/Kitgsﬁanln/It

l

Contact brings
in Enron expert

BY PETER QUACKENBUSH
STAFF NRITER

Enron’s collapse occupiedjoumalist Jeffery Bimbuam’s
Tuesday talk at Washington and Lee’s Lee Chapel.

The speech, Enron: “The Scandal That Ate Washington,”
covered the rise and fall of the Houston, Texas, corporation.

“We were thrilled to host one of Washington’s most
reknowned journalists, Jeff Birnbaum, to talk about the
issues surrounding Enron,” said Sam Langholz, president
of Contact, which sponsored the speaker. ‘

Enron was the brainchild of Kenneth Lay, Birnbaum
said. “(Lay) had his initial training in Washington, DC,
working for the govemment,” Birnbaum said. “Lay saw a
future (proﬁt to be made) if energy could get out from
under the thumb of the government.”

In 1985, Lay merged two regional pipeline companies
toform the first national pipeline company. Fifteen years

America, trading in natural gas and Internet bandwidth.
The company’s expansion culminated into a 7th place rank-
ing on the Fortune 500.

But all was not healthy inside Enron. The company’s
breathtaking success all turned out to be a large game of
manipulation because of the company’s practice of “ma—
nipulating its balance sheet,” Birnbaum said.

Birnbaum’s speech also analyzied the debacle’s
spillover into politics and other businesses. In the matter
of a couple of months the stock value of Enron fell from
$80 per share to less than one dollar per share. Entire
retirements and life savings were wiped out for employees
and investors. “As 2001 came to a close, so did Enron,”
Birnbaum said.

“I would hope that the students, faculty and commu-
nity members who attended the public lecture, or journal-
ism class, were able to gain some insight, and learn from
Mr. Birnbaum’s wealth of experience (of) reporting about
the intersection of business and politics,” Langholtz said.

ognized

IFC wins national award BY CATHERINE GUY
\X/&LIFF. EDITOR
STAFF REFoRTs
9 You know, it really tickles me the way
The North American Inter-Frater- students react to things. After we conﬁscated

nity Conference recently recognized
W&L’s fraternity system for “contri-
butions and efforts to advance the fra-
ternal movement,” according to an In-
ter—Fraternity Council press release.
The award, the first time the IFC
has been nationally recognized by the
NIC, was in part due to fraternities’ pro-
motion a safer campus social climate.
Past alcohol-related activities in-
clude last academic year’s grant to host
two Alcohol Summits and the fomiation
of Generals Advocating Safe Driving.
W&L’s fraternities are also in-
volved in community service, spon-
soring or participating in a local win-
terization project, a Holiday Decora-
tions Contest for Montesorri School,
the annual Lip Synch fundraiser for
Students against Rockbridge Area
Hunger and a golf tournament to ben-
eﬁt the American Cancer Society.
“I’m excited for our Greek lead-
ers,” said IFC Advisor William “Burr”
Datz. “They have generally been
working hard to make positive contri-
butions both on and off campus, and
it’s reassuring to be recognized by .
such a prestigious organization such
as the NIC.”
The N orth-American Ir1tema-
tional Conference has four hundred
national members, including W&L.

size of Roanoke.

situation,” Young said.

fellow MP’s did “second
tier” work: traffic control,
backup and building
security.

Young had agreed to
serve a one year tour

this one kid is beer bong, he asked me ‘Come
on, man, weren ’t you ever in a fraternity? ’
And I said ‘My fraternity was the 716"’ MP
Battalion in Saigon, Vietnam.’

Director of Security Mike
Young is one of the few and
the proud Vietnam Veterans
working on Washington and
Lee’s campus. He joined the
US Army at the age of 19, and
was stationed in Saigon, a
city of three million people the

“I was the same age as you
(students), just in a different

Young served as a military
police officer in the 716"‘ MP
Battalion. In that capacity, he protected
Americans and their allies, particularly he stayed for seven years.
Australians and New Zealanders. He and

from 1967 to 1968. Three weeks before
he was due to return home, however,
plans changed with the Tet Offensive.
The Viet Cong had laid siege to Saigon, a

Young shares military past

city that until then had been considered
safe. The Viet Cong attempted to capture
the American embassy and other
American,-controlled buildings.

His battalion resisted them, becoming
the “only Military Police Battalion ever to
engage in combat with an enemy,” Young
said. Thirty-seven men were lost in the
first 30 minutes of fighting, the first losses
the battalion had suffered.

Returning home, Young
was disheartened by the chilly
welcome he and fellow
veterans received.

“We were spit on and
called names,” Young said.
“Often, we denied that we had
served in the army.”

Prior to his military
service, Young had studied to
become a barber. However, in
the 1970s men’s long hair led
to a decreased demandfor
barbers. Young decided
instead to work as a police
officer at the University of Iowa, where

 

YOUNG

Young then served as police chief of
Titon, Iowa, for ten years.
After a four-year stint as
Rollins College’s campus

« safety director, Young moved
to Lexington to become
W&L’s director of security.

“I love myjob,” Young said. “The kids
are great.”

Young adds, “I get up every morning and
want to come to work Not everyone can say that.”

FRONT PAGE
FEATURE

 

later, Enron had become one of the largest corporations in -

  

JAMES; 2'; s ‘:"’v’:s..‘F*:‘. 1:; 
"mt-.~;:; «-.*.~a'*~’ . six -3 me '.‘:~:‘i-mt: I‘:
...~. .‘,__' V“ 

Jun 

  

PAGE 2

 

THE. RrNtHi.r..iPH1

TAFF EDITORIAL

Alumni: How much
policy should they dictate?

In a little over one week’s time, the class
of 2002 will cross from one column in the
university’s ledger into another, that of the
alumni. In the not-so-near future they can ex-
pect a slew of solicitations for donations, e-
mail updates, pamphlets, letters and other
bothersome dispatches.

But can they expect a voice? Surely a
Washington and Lee diploma bestows a level
of import to a man’s word regarding the affairs
of his alma mater—much more so than any
Johrmy-come-lately outsider who thinks he has
an honest appreciation of Lexington life.

After all, who could possibly argue that
tradition, the mortar that binds together every
brick on our fair campus, is guarded better by
anyone but our graduates? They provide the
governor on the W&L engine, keeping our
school’s experience uniquely ours. Otherwise,
our collective history is as meaningless as
students’rights in a Lexington police station.

For that duty alone, alumni deserve our
undying respect and gratitude, as well as the
adrninistration’s listening ear. But that thanks
does not behoove the entire community to
hang upon their every word.

Consider the fate of coeducation, had it
been left strictly in alumni hands. Nearly every-
one would agree that the introduction of women
has done nothing but improve the overall qual-
ity of life and academics. If we thought that
women do not have a place on campus, then
surely it was a massive folly for the university to
bankroll the construction of Sorority Row.

Alumni carmot expect their word to be ﬁ-
nal, or that in every situation they know what
is best for Washington and Lee.

Arriving at a course of action requires an
exchange among the alumni, the admir1istra—
tion and current students: not a decree issued
by a handful of Five-Star Generals, sur-
rounded by wistful memories of “the good old
days.”

In that respect, the occasional friction be-
tween Washington Hall and our alumni para-
doxically prevents us from slowing down and
sinking into a trough of inertia.

UOTE OF THE WEEK!

“ALPHA GOT
SCREWED AGAIN

I)!

—— ANONYMOUS FRATERNITY MEMBER TO
ANOTHER ANONYMOUS FRATERNITY MEMBER

P)

“[EX1>LErrvE] THAT [EXPLETIVE].

Editor-in-chief Matthew B. McDer'rnott
Associate Editor Katie J. Howell
Asst. News Editor Imran Naeemullah
Opinions Editor AndrewA. Latimer
Editor-in-exile Brett T. Kirwan
W&Life Editor Catherine C. Guy
Sports Editor David M. Crowell
Photo Editor MaryE. Guy
Photographer Jeb Brooks
Business Manager Paul A. Seifert
Circulation Manager Brian Castleberry
Asst. Business Manager Emily Barker
Advertising Manager William Litton
Internet Editor Peter L. Djalaliev

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Uni-
versity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The
Ring-tum Phi.is otherwise independent. p

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and colurrms do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum
Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

Annual Subscription Rate: $30

 l{lN(.l-Tl.‘éM Pm

PINIONS     

Time for President Bush,
Congress to hit the books

Promises tail to pan out as administration flunks America ’s children

So George W. Bush was “elected” under
the slogan, “The Education President.” The
question is how has he done? Well, I think it’s
time that Bush got his report card.

Let’s just say that I don’t think I’d be pass-
ing little W. on to the next grade. I think he
needs to be held back for at least a year. The
problem is, much like many other things with
this admiriistration, money. Tax cuts that were
too much are pulling money from parts of the
national budget that need it the most.

The Bush education budget falls $7.2
billion short of the targets set by the edu-
cation bill. The bill was

spoke recently letting his constituents know
the problems that have been the result in Wash-
ington because of budget cuts. “Last fall my
colleagues and I proudly passed the ‘N 0 Child
Left Behind’ Act in a bipartisan fashion. When
the bill was si ned by President Bush, I was
confident that our children and our public
schools would truly be helped by the innova-
tive reforms and increased funding in this his-
toric bill,” Hinjosa said.

However, he stated that his confidence
was only lasted from Jan. 6 of this year when
the bill was passed until Feb. 4, when Bush
presented his annual bud-

passed with bipartisan LEFT OF CENTER get to Congress. “The
support largely because ‘ President’s budget is to-
Democrats supported NICK RAMSEY  tally inadequate to fund

those targets to ensure
schools received adequate funding. .

However while the bill itself sounded
good, Bush’s budget cuts or eliminates
57 different education programs, totaling
more than $1.8 billion in cuts.

President Bush visited Milwaukee re-
cently actually speaking about his great
bipartisan education bill passed in Janu-
ary. Democrats pointed out that his bud-
get failed the promise of that bill. Bush’s
budget cuts dozens of programs and falls
well short of the funding targets set by
the “No Child Left Behind” Act Bush
signed in January. So much for campaign
promises. America, you got your tax cuts,
but at what cost?

Milwaukee Represenatives had a few
things to say about the President’s visit. “I
am happy to see the president talking about
education and reading to schoolchildren, but
the fact is that his rhetoric is not matched by
resources in his education budget proposal,”
said Representative David Obey (D-WI). While
Bush was in Milwaukee, Obey showed how
Bush’s proposed budget eliminates a $300,000
arts education program in Milwaukee and
freezes a $322,000 after-school program in La
Crosse, Wis.

What is even worse is that Bush is re-
ceiving a thumbs-down from Politicians from
his own state. Congressman Ruben Hinogosa

Letter to the Editor

K The following letter was sent to campus news outlets, and it
is this papers policy to acknowledge it as an Opinions piece.

University must disclose Sale Place to alumni

Dear Editor,

Should students who are approaching graduation be
told that when they become alumni they will no longer be

fully informed about events on campus?

The W&L SafePlace programis acaseinpoint ThisUni-
versity—sponscred program to promote the acceptance of homo-
sexuality on campus has not been described to W&L alumni.
Neither the monthly e-mail news bulletins to alumni northe quar-
terly Alumni Magazines have described the Safe Place program

Despite repeated requests that W&L alumni be informed
about the Safe Place program, neither the President, you, the
Director of Communications, the BC, the Director ofAlumni Pro-
grams, nor the W&L Board of Trustees have been willing to act

Students are aware of the lively opinions expressed in cam-_
pus publications about the Safe Place program, but W&L alumni
are being deliberately uninformed about this program Does the
Administration feel that the Safe Place program is too controver-
sial for alumni, especially in the midst of afund-raising campaign?

Isthis censorship good for W&L? The alumni are the
University’s largest ﬁnancial supporters; do they not deserve
an honest reporting of campus developments? Surely a Uni-
versity is above all a place for the free exchange of news and
opinion? How can we take ourselves seriously as a University
when an ofﬁcially-sponsored program is hidden from a large
part of the W&L commturity? Is this a mature attitude?

Finally, if news of the Safe Place program is unbear-
able to the largest and most powerful part of the W&L

-community, its alumni, at what point must we ask if it is

unbearable to the University?

If the Safe Place program can only survive secretly on
campus, does it deserve to exist at all? Can an institution like
W&L, which values honesty, hide a program because it may
be unpopular to some? Should we not demand the truth?

The alumni and future alumni deserve more than
expedient political secrecy about the Safe Place program.
They deserve honesty from the W&L Administration.

Sincerely,
David A. Keeling ‘73

BEFORE YOU HEAD HOME...

Come by and see Skip, Marla, Connie and Wilson.

SKIP THOMPSON’S
BARBER SHOP

22 S. Main Street 0 Lexington, VA

Open Mon., Tues., Thurs., & Fri. 8 a.m. -5 pm;
Sat. 84a.m.-noon; Closed Wed. & Sun.

540-463-5954

 

even the basic programs in
the bill.” Hinjosa continued, “It does not
even meet inﬂation and contains over $1 bil-
lion in program cuts.”
Moreover, here’s something that hits
a little closer to home for college students
like ourselves. It was just last week that
the President was temporarily given the
cold shoulder by Congressional Demo-
cra‘ts in his attempt to abandon govern-
ment support for student loans. Bush pro-
posed to change students loans from a
fixed-rate to a variable rate. The idea was

‘to use the projected savings from these

increase in loan payments for “other pri-
orities.” Meanwhile, these proposed vari-
able rate loans would be costing college
students thousands and thousands of
dollars over the life of their loan.

So, sadly, at a time when the green is
running a bit short in Washington, the
country’s educational systems and pro-
grams seem to be the ones to suffer. And
the point that I am trying to make is the lack
of priorites and forethought coming out of
the White House is our biggest problem.

We need our leaders to plan for the
future, not slash their income just when
our country has had some economic suc-
cess. Like so many things from the Bush
administration, it sounded like a good idea
at the time. Hindsight is like that.

    

.\, .«
.,. .,¢
,.;,~. ,

r,. .2 ‘mil tr

__ I.
ONSEDHOR

EMA11; LAnruu@rnnrDu

May 1 5 : The Capitol was inundated
with lobbyists and activists representing
the District of Columbia. The day had
been declared “No Taxation VV1thout Rep
resentation Day,” by those who see a dis-
turbing parallel between the status of our
seat of government and the thirteen colo-
nies vis a vis the government

Congressmen were being lobbied
in favor of a bill by the same name.
Sponsored by
Eleanor Holmes-
Norton and Joseph
Lieberman, the “No
Taxation Without
Representation Act,” would place a
moratorium on the collection of fed-
eral income tax from Washington, DC,
residents until the district is given rep-
resentation in Congress. _

I must admit, this is a great idea! Not
because the district should have repre-
sentation; it is constitutionally prevented
from having any. This bill is pure genius
because no one who does have repre-
sentation in Washington should have to
pay income tax, let alone those who don’t.
Moreover, creating a'tax—free zone would
set an incredible example for the nation
and do wonders for Washington.

Firstly, imagine what will happen to
property values when Washington be-
comes the East Coast’s own Monaco.
The rich and well—to-do will ﬂock to
Anacostia and Capitol Heights seeking
to claim residence and relieve themselves
of income tax. What better way could
there be to cure the blight and poverty
that plagues our nation’s capital?

Secondly, the tax—free zone would
show what the power of strong economic
incentives can do for an economy. With
his 1981 and ‘83 tax cuts, Ronald Reagan
proved to the nation what miracles an
economy produce when its consumers
and producers are given the proper in-
centive. If given free reign to keep any
and all of what he might earn, imagine
the effort a D.C. resident would achieve,
given passage of this legislation.

I did not think the day would ever
come when I would congratulate Joe
Lieberman on his perspicacity and

 
 

DlSlZlT(H FROM THE DISTRICT
_ 

MONDAY, MAY 27, 2002 ‘

Taxation? Representation?

Democrat bill would work wonders for Washington, nation ~<

courage, but the N 0 Taxes Act is a real
winner. Let’s hope it gains some trac-

tion and a Republican sponsor or two. 1.

In other news, Friday afternoon,
as a few of we Washington Terrners
were headed to the Holocaust Mu-
seum, we were prevented from using

the sidewalk that runs directly in ..

front of the White House’s South
Lawn and were sent across a field
towards the Wash-
ington Monument.
A small crowd had
gathered in the field
and we too stopped
to determine what the fuss was about.

Serendipitously, we were just in time .

to witness the President’s arrival onto the
South Lawn in Marine One, his helicop-
ter. You wouldn’t think that seeing the

landing in person would be very exciting A I

(everyone has seen it on television doz-
ens of times), but the majesty of the ar-
rival seen in person, even ﬁom a distance,
proved to be a highlight of the trip.

Interestingly, when the show was A

over, we saw three helicopters headed
back towards Andrews Air Force Base.
Apparently, Marine One was accompa-
nied by at least two decoys. It’s good
to know that W. is safe.

A ﬁnal note on my trip to the Holo-
caust Museurn Ifyou’re ever in Washing-
ton, make an elfort to go. It certainly isn’t

uplifting or cheery, but is a very powerful at

experience. The museum route traces the
history of the Nazis’ rise to power and the
progressive removal ofrights, fromnot
Jews,buttradeunionists,thehandi '
gypsies, and other “undesirables.”
Next,.one sees a detailed recounting
of the tactics used to isolate and exterrni—
nate the Jews. Using simple items such as

conﬁscated shoes and luggage, as well ,

as complex recreations of the Auschwitz
gas chambers and graphic video footage,
the true honor of the Holocaust.

If nothing else, the museum tour put
in proper perspective the petty disputes
that seem to consume Washington. Poli-
tics can be about very important things,
but so often isn’t Now that our generation
is at war; we, too, must stay focused.

 

 

Ttitji RlN(.£-~Tt.tM Pin

"MONDAY, MAY 27, 2002

IVI-\R\' Gui’/The Ring-tum Pi

1 MAN on THE HOUR. Sophomore midﬁelder Dustin Martin advances the ball in a

March 9 loss to Gettysburg. The Bullets defeated W&L, 12-8, in the NCAA Division
III Semiﬁnals on May 18, despite two goals from Martin.

ORTS
.Gttysburg ousts Genera

DAVID M CROWEIL
SPORTSEDHOR

Einir.-or arnu

BY DAVID CROWELL
SPORTS EDITOR

The trio of Tim McGinnis, Ric
Bremer and Pete Milliman ﬁnally put
a stop to what Harnpden—Sydney and
Washington College could not.

McGinnis made 20 saves in goal
and the senior duo of Bremen and
Milliman totaled 12 points to key a
12-8 victory in the NCAA Division III
Semifinals and put an end to the Wash-
ington and Lee men’s lacrosse team’s
magical run through the playoffs on
May 18.

“I think we played well, but lost to
a very good team who played a very
good game,” sophomore attackman
Matt Fink, who scored four goals in
the defeat, said. “Their goalie is in-
credible and he’ll probably be a First
TearnAll-American.”

Coach Mike Cerino agreed with
Fink’s assessment, calling McGinnis
“probably the most dominant player
in Division HI right now.”

The top-ranked Bullets started the
game with a quick goal 39 seconds in,
but Fink evened the scored with 10:55

‘Proko, Hatley garnerA||-America honors

BY DAVID CROWELL
SPORTS EDITOR

ally defended her singles crown, defeated Proko 4-6, 6-2, 6-2.
“I was pleased with my play against Blanina,” Proko

said. “I came out on fire and didn’t miss hardly anything

In addition to leading the Washington and Lee women’s
tennis team to a third place ﬁnish in the team competition,
junior Erika Proko and senior Melissa Hatley earned All-

; America honors after advancing in the individual singles
and doubles competitions.

Proko, the No. 4 seed in the singles tournament, started her
run to the semifinals on Monday by defeating junior Laura
Beduhn of Gustavus Adolphus in the first round and then

“ knocking otf Amherst freshman Rachel Holt in the round of 16.

Proko then proceeded to exact revenge on Emory’s
Margaret Moscato in the quarterﬁnals, grabbing a 6-3, 6-
1 victory on Tuesday morning. Moscato had defeated

‘ W&L freshman Lindsay Hagennan to remove the Gener-
als from the team competition on May 18.

“The win over Moscato had a lot of personal meaning
to me, after she threw us out of the team tournament,”
Proko said. “I deﬁnitely had revenge on my mind.”

A Proko’s run through the individual tournament ended
when she ran into top-ranked and defending champion Elena
Blanina of Methodist in the semiﬁnals. Blanina, who eventu-

America honors.

in the first set. Her game is exceptional though, and I
couldn’t keep it up for the second and the third.”

In the doubles portion of the tournament, Proko teamed
with Hatley to ﬁnish in the top eight.

In the round of 16, Proko and Hatley defeated
Rochester’s Joanna Toke and Rachel Sandler, 6-3, 7-6 (4).

The win advanced them to the NCAA Division III
Quarterﬁnals, where they were pitted against Emory’s Mary
Ellen Gordon and Anuish Natarajan, the defending na-
tional champions, on Tuesday afternoon.

The loss gave Proko and Hatley a doubles record of
25-6 on the season, a record that helped them gamer All-

For Hatley, the tournament also marked the end of her
memorable four-year career.

“Erika and I had a great year playing doubles together,”
she said. “Being able to play together for the past two
years gave us the experience we needed to succeed in
doubles play. Being out on the court with her was a won-
derful way for me to end my collegiate career.” 1

left in the first quarter off an assist “Most people would say ‘we had a

from freshman Gavin Molinelli.

From here, the Bullets shot back
with three straight goals to seize a 4-1
lead. Fink put W&L back to within
two by scoring the final goal of the
quarter off an assist from sophomore
Rich Williams.

Both teams scored once in the sec-
ond quarter, with sophomore
midﬁelder Dustin Martin scoring for
W&L. The ofﬁcials called off an ap-
parent goal by Molinelli, that would
have cut Gettysburg’s lead to 5-4, be-
cause a W&L player was in the crease.

Gettysburg broke open the game
in the third and fourth quarters with
seven unanswered goals.

“We came out strong and they just
put a bunch on us in the third,” senior
attackmanAndrew Barnett said. ‘Things
just seemed to snowball from there.”

Cerino agreed with Barnett, but
also felt the Bullets’ run is deceiving.

“We weren’t able to capitalize on
our opportunities and that really hurt
us. We outshot them, eight to six, in
the third, but we couldn’t put them
away,” the first-year coach said.

BY DAVID CROWELL
SPORTS EDITOR

PARENTS.’ this makes a great graduation present!

V SENIORS: Just because you’re leaving doesn’t mean you have
i If to lose touch with W&L. Keep informed with a Phi subscription.

send a $35 check to
The Ring-tum Phi
W&L University Center

Lexington, VA 24450

after this,
     will  of

  

On May 18, the Washington and
Lee women’s tennis team seemed
poised to reach the NCAA Division
III Championship match. Emory,
however, slammed the door on the
Generals’ chances in semiﬁnal play.

The Eagles used a big comeback
by Margaret Moscato at No. 2
singles to seize a 5-4 victory over the
Generals (22-3) and earn the oppor-
tunity to face Williams College for
the national title.

The Generals started the day in the
hole by dropping two of three doubles

' matches. Senior Melissa Hatley and

junior Erika Proko lost at No. 1 doubles
to the defending national champions
in doubles play, Mary Ellen Gordon and
Anuisha Natarajan.

Senior Manning Willard and
freshman Lindsay Hagennan earned
the sole doubles victory at No.2.

“Lindsay and Manning had a
great tournament at doubles. They
lost a close one (in a match against
Pomona-Pitzer in the quarterﬁnals),

rough third quarter, but in reality we
were controlling play. We ran into a
goalie who had a career day.”

In fact, McGinnis stopped ﬁve of the
Generals’ eight shots in the third quar-
ter after making 10 saves in theiﬁrst half.

The 12-3 deﬁcit, however, did not
end W&L’s hopes. The Generals
mounted a furious comeback, scoring
the ﬁnal ﬁve goals of the game, but it
was too little, too late.

Fink scored two of the ﬁnal five
goals to lead the Generals’ attack. The
game was an appropriate ﬁnale to the
first-year starter’s season, as he ﬁn-
ished as W&L’s top scorer with 45
goals and 15 assists.

“I was just shooting the ball really
well on Saturday,” Fink said. “On my
first two goals the shots hit the pipe
and went in so I knew I was shooting
the ball well.”

Cerino felt Fink’s performance
capped a ﬁne season of improvement,
saying that “the nice part about Matt’s
game is that he developed as the year
went on. He helped us control posses-
sions, he improved his dodging and

but for the most part got our only
doubles victories,” coach Cinda
Rankin said.

Rankin felt that the Generals
faced a tough obstacle by getting
off to a slow start in doubles, but
also stressed that the team was more
prepared for singles play.

“The 2-1 deﬁcits in doubles are
very tough to overcome, but the kids
played well in singles,” she said. “We
seemed to be much stronger in
doubles during the middle of the sea-
son, in late March. We put more of
an emphasis on singles play later in
the year and it showed.”

W&L split the singles matches,
with Hatley, junior Laura Bruno and
Willard winning at No. 3, 4 and 6
singles respectively. In Hatley’s win,
she overcame a 4-1 deﬁcit in the third
set to seize victory.

“I lmew that I had to win my match
for the team to win,” Hatley said. “I
think that I just wanted to win more
than my opponent and was not will-
ing to leave the court until I had ac-
complished that.”

Moscato ended W&L’s run,

 A corporate ladder

1’ _;f?E'a  RtIJtT-Q.  get ta do shift" tt';v.at‘f“tE cit-5%-sage rim. ?5t3t:~§i:h p:>h;tsait:eIl:;% asnrﬁ saerst.a=E_§g5r..  
" ‘jissae gs, r3,:tagi"§i::‘.dae.:'aIr::-p striti-5 that: see use  fg;‘D{l%.,{' t:aree.sf. Eikie tihjisslaritr-rig t:»r1.3.»"esi“  rrratriag   

3fa’s nattrinfg  "

PAGE 3

ls from postseason play

became a more complete attacker.

“As the rest of his game grew, he
found himself getting more opportu-
nities.”

The game marked the third time the
men’s lacrosse team has reached semi-
ﬁnals play. None of those trips ended
with a victory, but expect this team, a
squad no one expected to get this far,
to change that in the future.

“Everyone was counting us out
throughout the season,” Barnett said.
“We had lost our coach, many tal-
ented seniors, and we were starting a
very young group, but everyone
seeemed to step up. We were a ‘true’
team and everyone had to contribute
everyday for us to be successful.”

Fink, who will form an integral part
of next year’s team, expects a bright
future for the Generals.

“I think at the beginning of the year
we felt we were in the shadow of last
year’s seniors, but now we know we
can play with and beat the top teams
in the country,” he said. “I look for-
ward to, keeping up the level of play
from this year and advancing further
in the tournament next year.” 1

Women’s tennis seizes 3rd in nation

Genera/s drop heartbreaker to Emory, rebound to defeat Trinity (Texas)

though, by coming back from the brink
of defeat to beat Hagerrnan 6-7 (7-1),
7-6 (5), 6-3 .,

Hatley noted the intensity of her
teammates during the loss, saying
that “everyone fought so hard dur-
ing that match. I don’t think I’ve
seen a team want to win a match more
during the 4 years I have played.”

The Generals bounced back from
the defeat the next day, beating Trin-
ity, 5-4, to wrap up a third place ﬁnish.

Great singles play paved the
way for the win, with Hatley,
sophomore Liz Law, Bruno and
Willard all easily winning their re-
spective matches from three
through six in two sets.

Rankin felt proud of the way the
team came back from a heartbreak-
ing defeat.

“I was very proud of the way we
came out and got after it. Irnrnedi—
ately after Emory, the team really
wanted to go out and ﬁnish the sea-
son with a win. The pride and deter-
mination, the conviction, were all
there,” Rankin said. “It makes a coach
very proud.”

 

MONDAY, MAY 27, 2002

BY MICHAEL LEE
srorrrs WRITER

When athletes of such high caliber like volleyball player
Lindsay Ruckert, tennis players Melissa Hatley and Erika
Proko, or cross country and track runner Burke Duncan
populate Washington and Lee, the choice for top female

athlete would seem tough.

But very few athletes rack up the statistics and acco-
lades that senior Jessica Mentz compiled during her ﬁnal
season as the starting forward for the Generals. .

The first W&L player to ever be named the Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference Player of the Year, Mentz also
garnered Virginia State Player of the Year honors and earned
a spot on the All-South Regional first team.

For her numerous accomplishments this season and
her tremendous importance to the W&L women’s basket-
ball team, it is with great pleasure that The Ring-tum Phi
sports staff has chosen to name Mentz as the Female

Athlete of the Year..

According to Mentz’s coach, Janet Hollack, part of her
star forward’s success has come from her ability to play

above her size.

The 5-foot-9 Mentz “is not as tall as a lot of forwards,
but she used her head to get in position and get the re-

bounds,” Hollack said.

u

And grab the boards she did. Mentz led the league in

rebounding with 11.8 per game and also holds W&L’s
school record for career rebounds with 973.
This is all the more impressive when you consider that she

played most of her minutes with senior center Megan Babst on

the court. Babst, at six feet, grabbed 10.1 rebounds per game.
Mentz was also second in the league in scoring this
past season, at 20 points per game, and holds W&L’s
career scoring record with 1,742 points. '
Mentz broke 21 school records in her W&L career on
her way to becoming the most decorated women’s basket-

ball player in school history.

The barrage of postseason awards mirrored the way
Mentz battered opponents in the paint during the season.

Coach of theYearmakes immed

BY DAVID CROWELL
sronrs EDITOR

When Jim Stagnitta parted ways
with the Washington and Lee men’s
lacrosse program last fall, he left the
program in a precarious spot.

Stagnitta provided stability to the
program for 12 years and strength-
ened the ﬁne lacrosse tradition in-
grained into W&L history.

The Generals also faced the gradu-
ation of ﬁve All—Americans from a
squad that ﬁnished 14-1 : Matt Dugari,
Pope Hackney, Pete Iwancio, Bernie
Norton and Wes Hays. .

Luckily, the athletic department
found a coach who knew a thing or
two about lacrosse to ensure that 2002
was not merely a “rebuilding” year.

For leading his team to a 14-4 record
and returning W&L to NCAA Division
HI postseason play, The Ring—tum Phi
sports staff has chosen to name Mike
Cerino the Coach of the Year.

Cerino accepted the honor by ﬁrst
emphasizing the foundation that
Stagnitta put into place before he arrived.

 
   
 
     
      

“There was a winning attitude in
place when I took over from Coach
Stagnitta and his staff. The guys were
used to being in the postseason and
used to being competitive,” Cerino
said. “We just needed to build on that
with this young group.

“But any time you get a new coach,
you get a fresh start. What was exciting
for some of these new guys is that they
were getting a clean slate, regardless of
what happened in the past. I think that
helped energize the team early on.”

Senior Andrew Barnett emphasized
that Cerino was able to win over the entire
team with his personality and style.

“People believed in his system and
what he told us. He instilled a sense
of conﬁdence in us and the team at-
mosphere that helpedus be success-
ful,” he said.

Cerino shined in the middle of the

. season by dwelling onlthe positives

and pushing his players to the last
second of each game.

He pointed to this season’s first
game against Hampden~Sydney, an 8-
5 loss, as a clear example of his ability

   
   
 

1 ...I+1‘§iiIN=(;§—';!..."‘().. 

._..,.._.

3;; U-r.'rr:'§($‘t'?k*‘t5.4' 

.\

     
   

3 .‘.'.~“i)t<.I4'.r.-a.:'.€’.t1'(r

DEEP FOCUS: Seniorjessica Mentz stood tall for the Generals
all season, leading the team in scoring and rebounding.
Mentz graduates with 21 school records to her name.

In addition to the aforementioned honors, she was the
first W&L women’s basketball player to be named an
NCAA Division III All—American, landing on the honor-
able mention squad.

To Hollack, these awards came as no surprise.

“Jessica put in the work to earn all those accolades.
She came in often on her own to work with me, and that
helped her game as well. She had a great work ethic,
and is a wonderful player,” Hollack said.

iateimpactforGenerals

' THE RI; ‘ o-mi; Pin

   .  -

Ring up one more for Merit

 
   

MARY GUY/The Ring-lm P/Jr’

to improve his team’s focus and de-
termination.

“We kept shooting, kept playing,
scored a late goal and I even called a
timeout in the last minute to show
them that it wasn’t over until the ﬁnal
second,” Cerino said. “I think that led
into our next game at Sydney (an 8-3
win), when we came in with great fo-
cus and really wanted that win.”

Sophomore Matt Fink praised
Cerino’s positive attitude, saying that
“he allows you to play your game and
always lets you know when you do
something right.”

Both Barnett and Fink felt that a
key to this team’s success was the
way Cerino adjusted strategy to fit
every player’s strengths.

“Coach’s style is to encourage team
play and it allowed a team like this, with
no real superstars, to get so far,” Fink
said. “He really plays on everyone’s
personal strengths so that everyone
helps the team in a different way.”

Cerino, however, acknowledged

his dependence on two able assis- .

tants, Ricky Matthews and Jason Rife.

Sullivan proves 2 ports re bette than1

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

It takes a lot to compete at the in-
tercollegiate level. Time, passion and
patience are a few qualities of the con-
summate athlete.

Junior Chris Sullivan is one of these
athletes, as he is able to participate
and excel in two varsity sports.

The Ring—tum Phi sports staff is
pleased to name Sullivan the Male
Athlete of the Year. '

Sullivan began the year on the grid-
iron. Sharing the offensive load with
senior Marc Watson, he was named
to the NCAA Little All-America third
team as an all—purpose runner.

Comprised of players from NCAA
Division II and HI teams, he was only the
second W&L player to make that team.

Sullivan led Division III with 2,024
all purpose yards this season, aver-
aging 202.4 yards per game. He rushed
for 1,189 yards and eight touchdowns
on a school-record 253 carries, caught
27 passes for 268 yards and another
touchdown, and returned 19 punts
and 13 kicks for 204 and 347 yards,
respectively. Sullivan was named to
the Al1—State First Team, All—ODAC
First Team, and the All"-South Re-
gional Third Tearn. I

FootbaIlcoachFrankMiriellohadnoth-
ing but good things to say about Chris.

“He’s a wonderful player. He brings ,

a lot to the table — he’s got speed,
he’s tough and quick, and he really
loves to play the game of football. He
loves to push himself to the lirriits and

Cerino already knew Matthews as
a player when the then-senior
captained Cerino’s Division H Lime-
stone squad to a national title in 2000.

“Ricky brought intensity. and an
attitude that championships are won
daily in practice and before the sea-
son even starts, in offseason condi-
tioning,” Cerino said. {

CerinoalsovaluedRife’sworkasabox
coach and his intensive ﬁlm preparation.

“Rife brought a real balance to this
team. It was the first time in a while
that I had an assistant who I hadn’t
worked with in the past, so he was a
breath of fresh air for me,” he said.

Don’t expect Cerino, however, to
rest on any laurels. He already plans
to take W&L, a team younger than
his 2000 championship team, to the
next step next year.

“I think this team can do a little
more off the ﬁeld, with weight train-
ing and conditioning,” he said. “It’s
a big jump to that title game and it
takes a lot to get over that last
hurdle.”

And he should know best.

      
 
  
   
    
   
    
  
 
 
 
    
   

r/_ .. ..,-iii. k.I\t/\'\i,i.,

A SPORTSEDHOR

FAHIL rBoyErro@uir

PAGE 4,

   

RAMBLE ON: Junior Chris Sullivan ran past a wide array of opponents in 2001,
rushing for 1,189 yards. Sullivan also captained die track team in the spring.

he’s a competitor — you can see it in
his eyes,” Miriello said about his team
captain.

Sullivan also had a great year on
the track team. He was selected to the
2002 Verizon Academic All-District 111
College Division Track and Cross
Country team on Thursday afternoon,
capping a stellar year in which he won
the long jump at the ODAC champi-
onships, with a leap of 21 feet, 11.25
inches.

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS \‘(‘RITF.R

It is always tough as a fresh-
man atlileteto move up in the ranks
of the varsity teams in the shadow
of upperclassmen.

Some freshman athletes, though,
exceed all expectations. Jennifer Lux,
the freshman setter on the volley-
ball team, impressed all observers
of Washington and Lee athletics
with a superb rookie campaign, in-
cluding coach Bryan Snyder.

“She took over as our setter
as a freshman, and that’s a very
difficult position because the of-
fense runs through her on every
possession,” Snyder said. “She’s
got a tough serve, she’s a great
defender, and is an all-around
great player.”

The recognition surprised but
pleased Lux.”

“It deﬁnitely comes as a sur-
prise and an honor,” Lux said. “I
was really excited to play here as
a freshman. I play volleyball be-
cause, it’s a team sport, and I love

Lux offers breath of fresh air’

    
  
  
   
  
 
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
   
   
  
  
  
   
  
    
  
  
   
     
  
    
   
 

 

r‘lAR)‘ (iU\  ng»tur}1P/yi

R

He also took second in the 100-
meter dash (11.20 seconds), ﬁfth in
the 200—meter dash (23.55 seconds)
and seventh place in the javelin at the x
outdoor meet.

“He was our captain, our top
sprinter and long jumper,” track coach
Norris Aldridge said. “He owns the in-
door long jump record at W&L, set last It
year. He’s been a great leader and a
consistent performer for all three

years. ‘

this team. We get along very well.”

Lux was named the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference Rookie of the
Year and earned a spot on the Second
Team All—ODAC squad. ,

She had a stellar year by setting a k
new school record for season assists
with 1,186. Lux was third on the team
in service aces with 54 and a hitting
percentage of .31 1 .

In a victory against Roanoke onli
October 3, she posted 49 assists, 19
digs, six kills and five blocks. She con-
sistently recorded 30 assists per match.

She helped the Generals to a con-
ference title, which gave W&L an au}
tomatic bid to the NCAAToumam nt.
There, they beat sixth-seeded Chris-
topher Newport, but lost to Emory in
the South Regional Semifinals. 1.

With the success of this season,
Lux understandably expects victories
next season, when she enters her sec-
ond year running the offense.

“I was very excited with our success
this season, and we’ve been working in
the off season, so hopefully next year
will be just as successful,” Lux said.

h

A

   

From Isca to all the senior Co-op work studies:

 
 

ebest!

“I especially want to thank you all for
all the support and love you’ve shown ..
me on campus and off. I’m very proud

of you and know that you all will do
well in whatever you decide to do. ”

     
  
 
 

--/SCA Kr/ve

For great‘tIta~t§3or and aro?:rta_., never drink -cofiee .a1r::re than 2 w‘ee.k:s aid.
Thaﬂs witty alt oéur -ceii-'ee.s are marked witli the roasting date.
9 WEST‘WASIi1If-s’;GT0?4t S'I’R§§ZI:‘.;'l‘ - §sEZ}I2ilI?‘vi(§‘l7()§*3 ' 464-6:586‘

  Mountain Traditions.  

Unique Rustic Furniture

Decorations and Gifts
     

   

  
  

    

,Hours:Mon.-Sat. 10-5; Sun. 11-3

 
 

