.G

3:

 

 

Greek scholarships

Fraternities to subsidize four
new members each year; sororities may follow suit

BY KATTE HOWELL
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Numbers of Washington and
Lee University men joining frater-
nities will increase slightly next
semester once the Interfraterriity
Council (IFC) implements its new
need-based aid program.

The new scholarship will pro-
vide four freshmen each year with

“If you look at the rush num-
bers, they go up and down each year,”
Jacobs said. “But usually about 20
percent of students don’t pledge.”

The W&L Institutional Re-
search Web site said 72 percent of
women on campus are in Greek or-
ganizations. W&L’s Panhellenic
Council is currently investigating
the possibility of establishing a
scholarship system similar to the

money tocover the Greekfee, a$500 IFC system for W&L women.
yearly charge. T0 begin
According IT IS A HUGE EiNAN- Paying for the
wlhe W&L IN‘ CIAL COl\/iMI"Il\/TENT TO S°h°1arship’IFC
tuuonal Research charged each of
web site, 80 per. JOIN A GREEK ORGA- the 15 fratemi-
cent of campus NIZA-HON. WE WANT ties anadditional
men are ﬁatemity $50 in Fall Term
n)cmbefs_ TO MAKE IT AS FASY AS dues. Jacobs
“It is ahuge POSSIBLE FOR PEOPLE Said they Will
ﬁ’,‘a“°la1 ?",m‘ TO JOIN THE SYSTEM. °.h‘“g° an add”
nutrnenttojorna tlonal $5 per
Greek orga_niZa_   IIICIIIDCF  W111-
tion,” IFC advi— IFC ADI/D-OR ter Term dues.
sor Matt Jacobs Jacobs said

said. “We want to make it as easy
as possible for people to join the
system if they want to.”

Jacobs said the scholarship
will provide the Greek fee to the
four recipients for their sopho-
more, junior and senior years. The
chosen fraternities will cover the
$125 freshman year Greek fee.

 

W&L’s fraternity system has not
had an aid program in his ﬁve years
at the school.

“This system should last,” he
said. “We’ve built in a perpetual fimd-
ing system, so hopefully (the aid pro-
gram) will grow aridchange with time.”

The IFC is currently accept-
ing applications from interested
freshmen men. Application forms
are available from dorm counselors
or outside the IFC ofﬁce in the Uni-
versity Center.

Upon selection, the only cri-
teria to continue receiving fund-
ing are to keep the Greek minimum
GP.A. of 2.0 and to remain a mem-
ber in good standing of the cho-
sen fraternity.

“About three or four kids have
asked me about the program al-
ready,” Jacobs said. “I think the
W&L fraternity system is really
going to get something out of this
(new aid program).’’

RI

WASHINGTON AND I

NG-TUM

T/ll’ student mile of Washington and lire Uniuerrzh unit 7897 45 Online at: ])liz'.w/n.en'n

;EE UNIVERSITY

PHI

VOLUME CV, NO.Xlll
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2002

Students: vote tomorrow

W&L-related candidates joust for the 24th Districts House of Delegates seat

STATE Issues

[] 

 
 

$154 million referendum

if approved, bond funds will al-
low for the construction and
refurbishment of buildings in
all of Virginia’s universities,
community colleges and mu-
seums. The Virginia Milititary
institute would directly benefit
from this measure, Washing-
ton and lee would not.

[] 

 

$119 million referendum

If approved, bond funds will al-
low for the purchase of land for
three new state parks, 11 ex-
isting parks, 10 new natural
area preserves and eight ex-
isting preserves.

° $30 million

to purchase new land

° $6.5 million

for additional land

- $4.5 million

to protect shoreline erosion. 1
° $78 million

for construction, repairs

“WE NEED TO
ADDRESS THEiE
DTUET NOW. WE

DON’T HAVE HME To
WAIT. I T’: TlME YHAT
WE CUT THROUGH THE
SLOGANS AND THE
RHETORIC AND GET To
WORK ”

MIMI ELRoD, Democrat

 

   

BEN CLINE, Republican

‘7 HAVE BEEN
FIGHTING WITH Boa ,
GOODLATTE FOR
EIGHT YE/IRA" TO MAKE
THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT WORK 
I HOPE To CONHTWJE
THD" FIGHT AT THE
STATE LEVEL”

Top 5 Donors ($122,627 total)
$7,800 Va Rep Joint Caucus (Richmond)
$6,000 Committee for Repub.  (Roanoke)
$5,000 Dominion Trust (Fredericksburg)
$5,000 VaConservativeActionPAC (COlonialHeights)
$2,800 Robert Berkstresser (Lexington)

ELROD AND CLINE DoNoRs AND EXPENDITURES

Top 5 Donors ($144,314 total)
$10,000 H.F. “Gerry”LenfeSt (West Chester, PA)
$9,750 New Leadership Va Fund (Richmond)
$5,000 joshua Elrod (Lexington)
$5,000 Frank Parsons (Lexington)
$2,500 Rose H. Schewel (Lynchburg)

 

$15,700 TV/ Radio

$7,500 Polling

323 Donations of $100 or Less ($20,864) 244 Donations over $100 ($123,450)

$32,400 TV / Radio

$7,800 Polling

284 Donations of $100 or Less ($16,465) 188 Donations over $100 ($106,162)

Despite Democrat Mimi Elrod and Republican Ben
Cline’s connections to Washington and Lee, students
won’t be a signiﬁcant factor in deciding who gets the
House of Delegates seat.

Lexington voting data for the 2001 gubernatorial
election indicate that only 31 percent of registered 18-
year-olds, 20 percent of 19 to 21-year-olds and 16 per-
cent of 22 to 25 year-olds voted.

In the November 1999 election, only 42 percent of
registered voters age 18, 12 percent of voters age 19-21
and eight percent of voters age 22-25 cast a ballot.

The vast majority of W&L students are registered
to vote in their home states, rendering them ineligible
to vote in Lexington tomorrow. Most students tend to
be more interested in home—state politics, and vote with
absentee ballots.

“I’m more personally concerned about what hap-
pens in my home state,” senior Paige Bryant said.
“Where you come from is more important than where
you are for four years.” .

Senior Anne Lotz feels that by casting a ballot in
Lexington, she would vote for candidates who repre-
sent different people than herself.

“I think about this as home, but I know it’s school,”
Lotz said. “Even if I voted here, the candidates would

Top 5 Expenditures
$21,725 Direct Mail / Design/ Printing

$15,251 Signs / Bumper Stickers / Etc.
$12,000 Donations to Party Committees

Top 5 Expenditures

$16,357 Direct Design / Printing
$13,327 Signs / Bumper Stickers / Etc.
$9,635 Staff Salaries / Beneﬁts

BY DREW DAVENPORT
STAFF WRITER

see ELECTTON, page 2

 

INFOGR.-\PHlCI MATTHEW MCDERMOIT/ The Ring-tum P/tr‘, ALL PICTURES AND DATA COURTESY The Augusta Fm Prim, The Virginia Public Access Project, rnjor1rl.0r;g, 211/u.edu, lmrrlzmzmm, umiedu

Par garage repaired

BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTI‘

EDITOR IN CHIEF

W&L students may have found the park-
ing garage even less accessible than usual, due

to this weekend’s construction.

Parts of the third level were closed off while
the Haskell Co., the Jacksonville, Fla., firm that
originally built the garage, replaced the

building’s joint covers.

“[Haskell] is putting in non-beveled cov-
ers,” said Associate Physical Plant director

Randolph Hare.

The previous beveled covers were injuring

the garage’s structure.

This is not the first time that the garage has

needed extra work.

The 609—vehicle parking garage’s initial
opening was delayed by approximately a month.

The Haskell Co. requested and received an ex-
tension from Feb. 1 to Feb. 28, 2000.

The project was delayed by poor soil con-

the Warner Center.

ditions that hindered the foundation’s construc-
tion and led to a collapse of the bank just below

Lexington’s City Council approved the

garage’s planning in March 1999. Approximately
30 of these spots are planned for faculty and

staff use, while the remaining 117 are used by

commuting students.

-—For student opinion, see the staﬂ edito-

rial, on page 3.

SECRETS OF SHAMANISM UNTAPPED

KAIJN AEr.ANA1,E/Universty Scholars
SPIRIT GUIDE. Local Shaman explains her spiritual practices to the University Scholar/ Anthropology
class “Shamanism, Spirit Possession, and the Occult,” taught by Professor Sascha Goluboff.

State requests I—81improvements

Private tinns asked to
oontrbute to Interstate inprovements

BY KATTE HOWELL
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Drivers can expect a safer Interstate 81 in
the future now that the state has begun to seek
highway construction bids. Drivers, however,
may encounter tolls to help pay for the irn—
provements, given the state’s dire budget woes.

These were two certainties that emerged
from a Va. Department of Transportation
(VDOT) district meeting in Staunton last
month that addressed the road one VDOT
ofﬁcial described as “over—trafﬁcked and of-
ten dangerous.”

VDOT requested proposals for develop-
ment, improvements and ﬁnancing from pri-
vate consultants and contractors. It is likely
that VDOT will know speciﬁc projects and
improvements it will make one year from now.

I-81 “is over—trafﬁcked and often dan-
gerous,” said Tamara Neale, a VDOT
spokeswoman. About 40,000 vehicles
traverse the 47 miles of I-81 in Rockbridge

County each day, a recent VDOT traffic
count found. Neale said the interstate needs
to be improved for both safety and efficiency.

However, “there’s no state money for these
improvements right now, which is why we want
to tap into the private sector,” Neale said

VDOT publicized the proposal compe-
tition for consultants, contractors and other
private organizations in early September.

Earlier this month, state ofﬁcers, con-
tractors and consultants discussed sepa-
rating truck and passenger lanes, building
railroads to reduce truck traffic and using
tolls to pay for improvements.

Financing, especially the possibility of
tolls, was the major issue addressed during
a recent Staunton District meeting in

Harrisonburg. No ofﬁcials or companies
from Rockbridge County were represented
at the event.

State ofﬁcials said their request for
proposals does not require the use of tolls
as a means of funding. Still, many partici-
pants focused on tolls.

Consulting firms were the main toll pro-
ponents. Dan Dornan, vice president of
AECOM Consulting in Fairfax, advocated tolls.

“I would argue that it’s unlikely you’re
going to be able to pay for this from local
funds, from federal funds, from even a truck-
only toll,” Doman said. “You’ve got to ﬁnd
either a sugar daddy out there willing to put
a lot of money into this road — and I don’t
think the tooth fairy is coming to Virginia in
the near future -—— or you’re going to have to
probably toll the whole sucker, which in-
cludes passenger and trucks.”

However, truck companies and local
business representatives are not in favor
of tolls on I-81.

Benjamin Carter, executive director of
the Greater Augusta Regional Chamber of
Commerce, argued that trucking companies
already pay substantial taxes and that tolls
could be devastating to local businesses.

“Local trucking companies will be af-
fected more severely by these tolls, since a
greater percentage of their travel is on the
portion of Interstate 81 that’s under con-
sideration,” Carter said. “This would put
local trucking companies at a substantial
disadvantage to competitors from outside
the area.”

VDOT is seeking proposals under the
Pub1ic—Private Transportation Act of 1995.
The law allows the state to design, con-
struct, improve, maintain and operate trans-
portation facilities in conjunction with pri-
vate companies and consultants.

“VDOT wants to tap into the very, very
best of what the state has to offer in both

the public and private sectors in order to
make the roadway as safe as possible while
still serving as an efﬁcient means of trans-
portation,” Neale said.

VDOT’s request for proposals began
with an unsolicited proposal in January by
STAR Solutions, a group of companies that
used the 1995 law to suggest improvements
for I-81. It suggested truck tolls to pay for
construction and development costs.
VDOT returned the request in August with-
out comment and initiated the competitive
petition in early September.

The request has 20 stipulations, includ-
ing safety, environmental, railway and up-
keep issues. The query also emphasizes the
private companies’ and state department’s
financial risks.

“We’re also asking the private sector
for their ideas on how to finance this
project,” Neale said. “We don’t want an-
swers like bonds, taxpayers or VDOT’s bud-
get. (The companies) will take a share in the
risk and investment as well.”

Neale said VDOT has no timeframe for
construction completion. The deadline for com-
panies to submit initial proposals is in January;
review and selection deadlines will continue
through next summer. She said the department
will make ﬁnal negotiations by Sept. 30 and
construction will begin soon afterward.

Some citizens, including Jim Hartman,
president of Truck Enterprises in
Hairisonburg, are not in favor of large-scale
improvements.

“I-81 is a critically important compo-
nent of the Va11ey’s ﬁscal viability,” Hartman
said. “Our solution must be reasonable and
equitable for all. We don’t need eight lanes
with segregated vehicle lanes for all 300-
plus miles. Spending billions on passenger
and (railroads) will not help us in the next
decade. There are practical solutions, and
I’m sure we’ll ﬁnd them.”

  
 

 

 

JA .5‘ :2 
\t‘JAdir’I¥:4U5i3~”*

 

 « .,, ...,3-::..°.~.r“+:=,:z‘;'v
mm!‘

, nnevitn, 22*! 9.

   

 

 

W&L students not deciding factor

ELECTION, from page 1

not be representing me, they could
be representing people in this area.”
Sophomore Joanna Persio, an
organizer of the recently reestab-
lished Young Democrats, maintains
her voter registration in Connecticut.
Persio likewise believes that citi-
zens in the 24"‘ district should decide
who represents them, because their
interests are different that interests of
W&L students. ‘
Despite this sentiment, both Col-

spective candidate in hopes of pro-
ducing victory.

The College Republicans have
assisted by “putting up signs, ring-
ing doorbells and talking to people
about who Cline is and what he stands
for,” said junior John Heath, the
group’s president.

In addition to a rally that included
Mr. Cline, U.S. Sen. John Warner (R-
Va) and Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R), Col-
lege Republicans has also worked
with VMI and Southern Virginia to
provide maximum support for Cline,

supported Elrod, by working phone
banks and identifying people who will
deﬁnitely vote for Elrod, Persio said.

Because of the nationwide im-
portance of the Nov. 5 elections,
which include 36 gubernatorial and
34 Senate races, College Republi-
cans did not press students to
change their registration to Lexing-
ton, Heath said.

Heath predicts that Cline will
emerge “comfortably” victorious on
Nov. 5. Persio similarly feels optimis-
tic about Elrod’s chances.

 

lege Republicans and Young Demo- Heath said.

crats have been working for their re-

E~mail news briefs to
pIz_i@wlu.edu

 

Joint W&L and VMI proposal /ands
Natl Conference on Undergraduate Research

Virginia Military Institute and Washington and Lee
University have been selected to host the 2005 National
Conference on Undergraduate Research — the only meet-
ing for students from hundreds of colleges nationwide to
present their research across the broad liberal arts from
politics to physics, literature to fine arts.

NCUR’s announcement that VMI and W&L won the
competition for the March 17-19, 2005 conference brings
to fruition nearly two years of work by the schools to
forge a public-private partnership to secure a major aca-
demic conference for Virginia.

The VMI-W&L partnership is a model for other pub-
lic and private colleges to work together in furthering op-
portunities for students and faculty. NCUR cited the VMI-
W&L partnership in selecting Lexington — the smallest
community ever chosen by NCUR from its usual choice of
major cities as conference sites — to host the three—day
event, which draws about 2,500 students and acadenrics
from across the country each year.

“This is a splendid opportunity for VMI and W&L to
further our common conviction that creative student work,
by students in all disciplines, is an integral part of the best
possible undergraduate education,” said W&L’s Acting
Dean of the College Thomas Williams, a senior physics
professor.

“This is a watershed event in the history of VMI and
W&L,” Williams said of the partnership between the two
institutions separated only by their distinctive architecture.

The 2005 conference, “Inquiry, Discovery, Creativity

Young Democrats have similarly

It’s now up to the voters, whether
or not they attend W&L.

and Scholarship: A Celebration of Undergraduate Re-
search,” will draw on the success of both VMI and W&L
in promoting and funding advanced scholarly work by
students in mentorship with professors. These experiences
are especially valuable since both institutions focus on
undergraduate education.

As the nation’s ninth—oldest college, Washington and
Lee University has long promoted undergraduate research
through a variety of means, including its senior thesis and
summer student grants programs, which provide over 50
W&L undergraduates each summer with stipends to col-
laborate with faculty in research.

Outstanding student research at W&L includes re-
cent graduate Karly Shallow’s analysis of the cultural and
demographic effects on status consumer consumption.
Through her work with Professor Robert Straughan, Shal-
low was invited to present her marketing research ﬁnd-
ings in June at an international conference of higher edu-
cation and business leaders in Spain.

Virginia Military Institute, which enrolls about 1,300
cadets, recently formalized its tradition of emphasizing
faculty mentorship with cadets in research through the
Institute—wide Undergraduate Research Initiative to inte-
grate cadet scholarly inquiry across the curriculum and
throughout cadets’ four years at the public institution.

To win the 2005 NCUR conference — the ﬁrst to be
held in Virginia — VMI and W&L launched a joint commit-
tee of faculty and administrators chaired by Colonel James
E. Turner, director of VMI’s research initiative and a pro-
fessor of chemistry and biology.

By combining resources, VMI and W&L offered nu-
merous classrooms, lecture halls and public facilities
needed to host about 2,000 presentations, talks and large
poster sessions that will be featured at the March 2005
event

VMI and W&L students will help plan the confer-
ence, serve as host guides, assist guest speakers and
participate in research presentations ~ including their own.
A web site for NCUR 2005 also will be developed by a
team of VMI and W&L students.

story courtesy wlu.edu

 
 
  
   
 
  

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2002

  EDITORS
wanted

Winter Term vacancies opening up

 

All manner of editor po-
sitions, in many sections,
assistant and full, are ready
for applicants.

(I)

No previous experience
necessary: on—the—job train-
ing available from the best
editors on campus.

(I)

Learn a great deal from
working in a large and
complex organization.
Great experience and good
for one’s resume.

“joining The Rz'ng—tr/772 PM
was the best thing I ever did
. . . I shudder to think what I

otherwise would have

become.”
- - LUCIUS JUNIUS DESHA ‘06

F" * ‘ — — — — — — —'—"“"———'|

Contact
Katie Howell

at
howeIlk@ wlu.edu

to set up

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
Interview times :
I

    

Before Iast   weekenuhe only
 tlunghed eve hiliﬂe   was a CI).
 Aithough fire fighters do everyrthingigithey cantoipreven    
    burns, more than 2.5 millionburnInjuriiesoccur en, ,
North America eachpyear. Most could be prevented’ FIRE

To Iearnpmoreabout our “Don’t GetBurned"
campaign. please visit www.|AFFBurnFund org

This message is brought to you byiithe Internationaij Association '
A of Fire Fighters. Hamid A. Schaitberger, Generai President

 

  
  
   
 
   
  
   

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2002

Sl§ARllliiPliDlTORlAL

Plug temporary garage entrance

Even at a 253—year-old institution, three
years is not temporary.

Yes, it’s high time we got rid of the “tem—
porary entrance” on the fourth ﬂoor of the park-
ing garage.

Consider the numbers: according to the
Virginia Department of Transportation traf-
fic count report from August, approximately
4,300 cars pass through the intersection of
Washington Ave. and Nelson St. each day.
Some of you may have noticed the tempo-
rary entrance to Washington and Lee’s own
parking garage located precariously near this
intersection. It is, therefore, safe to assume
that a large number of these 4,300 cars are
coming either into or out of this temporary
entrance each day. With this large number, it
is also safe to assume that several of these
cars will meet one another coming either into
or out of the temporary entrance (and per-
manent exit).

Consider the logistics: the Haskell Com-
pany, who designed and built our parking ga-
rage, did not plan for cars to meet at the awk-
ward turn in our current temporary entrance.
If they had, they would not have built a high,
concrete wall blocking the view of oncoming
trafﬁc from both sides, and they certainly would
not have painted two exit arrows on the drive
pointing outward. University architects and plan-
ners did not plan for this to be an entrance to
the parking deck either, or they would not have
built a perfectly useful and functional entrance
on the first ﬂoor.

Now, the Phi understands that often it
is hard to drive the extra 150 yards down
Nelson St. when you are late for class after
a long night of partying in the country. The
lure of that temporary entrance sign glow-
ing like a beacon of hope from the top of
the parking garage, hope that your profes-
sor won’t mock you when you run breath-
less into class, ten minutes late with a
hungover look and tousled hair, is often
tempting even for Phi staffers. Dear reader,
restrain yourself as we do. Giving into temp-
tation not only weakens your character, but
it potentially harms others. What if you run
down a poor student, meekly turning the cor-
ner of the exit, not sure of what’s on the
other side of that concrete wall, in your self-
ish attempt to brown-nose your professor?
How would you live with yourself? How
would you explain the crushed bumper on
your 4-runner to Daddy?

Consider our suggestion: go the extra

hard to turn the corner and drive up the
ramps to the fourth ﬂoor. We estimate it will
take you an extra minute. Think about the
safety of yourself (and your Beamer). Think
about the safety of others. Washington and
Lee, it’s time to get rid of the temporary
entrance. The parking garage was com-
pleted on Feb. 28, 2000. Let’s get this show
on the road.

mile (or quarter mile). It’s really not that’

Editors in chief KatieJ. Howell
MatthewB.McDermott
Assignments Editor AndrewA.Latimer
Opinions Editor ImranNaeemullah

 

THE RiNo-rriir PH].

PINIONS

IMRANNAEEVIUILAH
OPINIONSEDHOR

Elections Tuesday crucial

That the upcoming Senate elec-
tions will be close offers just about the
only consensus regarding what will
occur on Nov. 5'“. Currently, America
seems ideologically evenly divided.
This is exempliﬁed perhaps no better
than in the Senate, where 34 seats are
up for reelection, no less than 12 of
which could prove to be nail biters.
Overall, the Republicans must defend
20 seats to prevent the Democrats from
strengthening their nominal majority
(50-49).

Recently, the tragic death of Min-
nesota Democratic incumbent Paul
Wellstone illustrated these ever in-
creasing tensions surrounding the
Senate. Wellstone’s memorial service
seemed more like a rally for Democratic
supporters. The negative reverbera-
tions of this showing were manifested
as Minority Leader Trent Lott, who had
ﬂown to Minnesota in order to attend
the service, was summarily booed by
the gathered liberals. The willingness
to display such irreverence at a cer-
emony for a man so unanimously
loved certainly demon-
strates that the Senate
elections are highly
contested indeed.

Below is my predic-
tion as to how Republicans may fare in
some of these important elections:

North Carolina: The ﬁercely con-
servative Senator Jesse Helms is retir-
ing after years of dutiful service for NC.
In his place, Elizabeth Dole will run for
the Republicans. Former Secretary of
Transportation, Secretary of Labor, and
head of the Red Cross, she will face
Democrat Erskin Bowles, the former
Chief of Staff to Clinton. Polls show
this race too close to call.

MYPREDICTION: Dole by 2%.

New Jersey: The Democratic in-
cumbent, Robert Tonicelli, dropped out
due to corruption allegations. For a
while, things were looking up for Re-
publican challenger Doug Forrester.
But due to a controversial NJ Supreme
Court ruling, the regionally famous
Frank Lautenburg will be running ir1
his place. This once close race now is
largely unfavorable for Forrester. MY
PREDICTION: Lautenburg by 8%.

LEGENDARY. Retiring Sen. Jesse Helms’ seat is one of many hoy cont

Missouri: This is a special elec-
tion (4 yrs. early) because Dem. In-
cumbent Jean Carnahan was ap-
pointed after her husband was

elected posthu-

oNSERVAnVE’S CORNER m°uS1y- This is a
DONNY BANKS ‘O6

tight one, but chal-
lenger Jim Talent
has years of expe-
rience in Missouri politics compared
to Carnahan’s relative newness. In
addition, he has been the clear win-
ner in the past two debates, which
even featured 3"‘ party candidates
and he has launched a new series of
ads that question her political apti-
tude and the degree to which she de-
serves to be in her position.
MY PREDICTYON: Talent by 3%.
South Dakota: Democrat Incum-
bent Tirnothy Johnson faces a tough
reelection in Republican John Thune,
who is strongly backed by Bush. The
Democrats have attempted to register
thousands of Native Americans, but
many of them have been shown to be
dead, amazingly. This controversy
could throw support to Thune.
MYPREDICTYON: Thune by 1%.
Texas: The Republican incumbent
has resigned, leaving Republican
Comyn to face off against the Demo-
cratic candidate, Kirk. This is also very

    

oourrrrsvor Wim/rro
ested races.

 

close, but Comyn, heavily backed by
President Bush, seems to have the
lead, especially after a win in one of
their debates.

MY PREDICTION: Comyn by 3 %.

Arkansas: The Republican in-
cumbent, Tim Hutchinson, may lose
due in part to the shroud of impropri-
ety surrounding his recent divorce of
his wife of 29 years for a younger bride.
In addition, his opponent, Democrat
Mark Pryor, brings to the table a recog-
nizable name and considerable political
family history in Arkansas.

MY PREDICTION: Pryor by 5%.

Historically, the party opposite the
President triumphs in midterm elections.
This year, however, as shown by the
tense environment of anxiety and com-
petitiveness among Democrats, that
trend could see an inconsistency. The
Republicans could deﬁnitely win some
pivotal challenging positions and main-
tain some incumbencies to gain a ma-
jority in the Senate once again.

By the same token, the worry of
the Democrats could translate into a
more diligent campaign. This would
give the Democrats the safe majority
they so desperately desire. I believe
that the Republicans will hold their
ground and maintain a status quo in
Senatorial numbers.

W&L must better support football

Washington and Lee is a school of many tradi-
tions. Already this year, some of our very positive
traditions have been under the fire of students. The
lack of adherence to the Speaking Tra-
dition, for example, is a prime target for
students to attack. However, while we
as W&L students hold our traditions
very near and dear to our hearts, there is one that we
should rethink. Since September 24 of this year, I have

had the privilege to witness
our football team play four
home games and one away
game. I have greatly enjoyed
watching our players fight to
the finish time and time again.
Because of my involvement
with the Ring-tum Phi, I have
been able to watch the games
pretty much from the side-
lines. For those of you have
never had such an opportu-
nity, it gives the game a whole
different perspective. The

VOICE or REASON
BARRETT DAWS ‘06

When I returned to my dorm room, I remembered that
it was in fact Parents Weekend and maybe the reason
for the mass exodus was some kind of parent—child
event elsewhere on campus. To my sur-
prise and wonder, this was not the case.
People simply got tired of watching our
football team win I guess.

To me, it’s pathetic and embarrassing to see
that we cannot even support our football team for an

entire game! Those guys bust
their butts for at least fifteen
hours a week in practice, no mat-
ter the conditions and then play
every Saturday, and we as a stu-
dent body cannot even give
them two hours or so of our time.
All we have to do is sit in the
stands and watch, hopefully
cheering, while the team does all
the real work.

Not claiming to be an expert
in football, I will state that dur-
ing last week’s game against

PAGE 3

Campus ‘race
watchdogs’ paranoid

While good-intentioned, reaction to race

issues overly dramatic, ignores fact

Judging by the tone of the letters to the editor in re-
sponse to Ryan Owen’s opinion in the Phi last week, one
might imagine that Mr. Owen’s piece was a work of an
ignorant, u1tra—right—wing bigot. While I carmot speak for
Mr. Owen, I will say that the conclusions drawn about his
article by the epistlors are incorrect, and reﬂect a paranoia
about minority issues at Washington and Lee that I ﬁnd
unnecessary at best, and downright troubling at worst.

Toussaint Crawford makes the point that in compari-
son to manyother
institutions of its
stature, W&L is
lacking in re-
sources dedicated
speciﬁcally to minority affairs. He says that because W&L
lacks these facilities for minorities, the EC’s allocation of
funds to the MSA is not excessive in proportion to the
number of people they serve, because minorities are
underserved otherwise. Whether or not this is the case is
an argument that can be argued persuasively from either
side; however, from a fairness perspective, I believe Mr.
Crawford’s letter inadvertently strengthens Mr. Owen’s piece.

Using Mr. Crawford’s logic that the MSA’s frmding is
justiﬁed because of lack of resources otherwise, then why
aren’t other groups given such consideration, at least to
such an extent? For example, one could argue that Mus-
lims, Hindus, and Jews, the largest religious minorities on
campus, suffer from a lack of resources compared to Chris-
tians. For example, there are no places of worship for these
religions in Lexington, let alone on the W&L campus, so
the EC should rightly provide these groups with funding to
enable travel to places of worship and other religious cen-
ters. This would not imply EC support of religion; rather, it
would merely show that the EC is assisting those who are
underrepresented that it is willing to help them enjoy the
same level of access to facilities as are Christians.

That said, I do not feel this is the EC’s obligation, nor
should it be, but Mr. Crawford’s logic certainly implies this.
And if one were to extend his logic beyond those three
religious groups, EC funding—-meant to provide for student
activities-—would soon be more of a “great equalizer” rather
than a just distribution of school resources. While there is
always room for improvement, I think the EC does a good
job of satisfying the many wants of the student body with
the limited funding it receives, the one exception being the
MSA allocation.

Again, this allocation is unfair not because minorities
don’t deserve assistance, but because this is not the EC’s
responsibility. I’m sorry, Mr. Crawford, but the fact that the
MSA doesn’t have a separate student commons to call its
own does not mean the EC should face a Shakedown every
year, driven by guilt and not a desire for justice. The re-
sponsible party is the administration, which has the duty to
ensure reasonably equal access to facilities for all students.
The MSA might have good intentions, but frankly, it is
imagining racist propaganda, which is not the case.

Of course, all this underscores a much larger prob-
lem at Washington and Lee: the issue of race relations.
In the roughly four decades since integration, surpris-
ingly little has changed. While much improvement has
occured for minorities-—certainly, blatant racism is vir-
tually nonexisten ——minority participation in mainstream
university life is unfortunately not what it could be.
Case in point: the Greek system.

Despite the best efforts of many fraternities to re-
cruit minorities just as actively as they recruit “main-
stream” students, relatively few minorities respond posi-
tively. Instead, they complain about the Greek system’s
focus on alcohol, and say that black Greek organiza-
tions are about much more than that, which is why
they won’t join our system. This is absolutely ludi-
crous: any fraternity brother will tell you that the party
his house hosts on a Friday or Saturday night reﬂects
only a fraction of what happens in the fraternity. Such
allegations do not do justice to the extensive philan-
thropic contributions of the Greek system, and reﬂect a
certain intolerance and prejudice on minorities’ part.

RIGHT-WING RESPONSE
IMRAN NAEEMULLAH ‘O5

ﬁrst couple of games I noticed
something from down on the
field, and quietly shrugged it

Sewanee, the team played better
in the first half than they did in
the second. Could one reason for

I for one sincerely hope that things get better in
the future. Instead of attempting to decrease the inﬂu-
ence and size of the Greek system, I hope the adminis-

Arts & Life Editor Catherine C. Guy
Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin
Asst. Sports Editor Dave Crowell

ARREIT AWS (2? lit
NEEDING SUPPORT. Generals fans shoul stick
around, lest they miss plays like this recent one.

 

. photo Editor Jeb Brooks off, however, after last week’s game, it struck a chord. that be the adrenaline rush of playing for a record tration chooses to actively encourage minorities to join
photographers Ta1]ieJan1es0n V I am standing right behind the end zone, about crowd wearing out in the second half when the play— the existing organizations, and lends them the support
Ban-ettpaws thirty seconds remaining to play in the second quar— ers came back onto the field with an empty grand— they need. In turn, I believe the system will respond

ter, and I look up into the stands and see a mass move-
ment towards the gate of Wilson Field. At first I felt
sorry for the people working in the hot dog stand as I
figured people were going to grab a bite to eat, how-
ever, when the buzzer blew, there they all went; right
out the gate! I stood there and thought to myself, why
would anyone want to leave this game? Our team was
holding a 20 to 0 lead against a long standing rival.
When the players returned to the field to resume
battle, I put my observation behind me and finished
watching what ended up being a great second half.

stand? We will never know, but that could be a possi-
bility.

So next time you go to a football game, or for that
matter any sporting event, try staying the entire game,
no matter the outcome. It is a respectful action as well
as our duty as W&L students to support our athlet-
ics. The football team’s last home game takes place on
November 9, at 1:00 PM against Emory and Henry. If
you have never been to a football game before, go to
this one; if you have been to a game before, try stay-
ing to the end.

positively, and welcome these open-minded, non—preju-
diced students just as it has been doing so for many
years with the relatively few such students it does re-
ceive.

As many a W&L alurrmus will tell you, what makes
W&L special is not its support for self-segregation.
Instead, its encouragement of individual expression
within a uniﬁed framework is its key to success. Rather
than changing the existing structure, which has worked
so well for so long, let’s instead rejuvenate it by ensur-
ing that all W&L students are a part of it.

Business Manager Paul Seifert
Asst. Business Manager Thomasworthy
Circulation Director Henry Grimball
Advertising Assistant McQueen Calvert

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
I sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editors in chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
I phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5 _
p.m.Fridaytoappearinthefollowingweek’sedition. The ,   ,  V . “V. ~ 3" V ‘V   , . 3 i , . ’ '  " . . . g A. . . 
Ring-tumPhireservestherighttoeditsubmissionsforcon- ‘V  » f’ ’ My 2 .  g r ’ . . - I" " I , t’ -R C V: V" . . T, , >3 .0
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily V ‘I ‘it "   . ’ it . _ V _ . t   ,    5 .   
reﬂecttheopinionofTheRing-lumPhiEditorialBoard. Ad— A . ’ ‘ 9 ‘ "   A -   * "  ._.   W  .  . i - ‘  V "  q ‘ 
it vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

 

The Ring-tum Phi
‘ Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

I Fax: (540) 462-4059

Email: phi@wlu.edu

,' http://phi.wlu.edu

       

“I would be streaking the “Iwoulddothehokey-pokey and “I would tell Vin Diesel my

Colonnade.” tummyselfaround” name and number.”
-REID MANNING ‘06 -PIERCE OWENS ‘O6 -ANN HUNGERFORD ‘06

“I would bite Charlie Gibson’s

nose.”
-CLINT IRVIN ‘06

‘‘I would say ‘hi’ to my

mama and papa.”

A lS b ' ' R :$3O
nnua u scnption ate _MCLEAN MCGREGOR ‘O5

 

   

PAGE 4 H

j “spectacular,” “simply breath
' the summit was the pinnacle of our excursion into the

 

, Spring Break 2003 with STS

4; Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free

 

 

October 1 is China’s National Day. Their Indepen-

P denee Day is celebrated with parades, festivals, ﬂowers
I and unlike July 4th, a weeklong vacation. Not wanting to
V appeartoo foreign, my program also took avacation and
Tuesday found us in the mountainside
4 hamlet ofTai Bai ShanorTooWhite Moun-
, tam.

Other students tell me the mountain is
' g”andthatthehiketo

countryside. Will I ever know ﬁrsthand of its grandeur
and awesome beauty? Not unless I return to Tai Bai

4 Shari, for while China was celebrating the success of the

Communist revolution with ﬁreworks, I had ﬁreworks of
my own, but of the gastrointestinal sort.

I’m still trying to nail down the exact source ofmy
food poisoning. It could have been lunch at the archaeo-
logical site, the apples afterward or dimer in the small,
local Tai Bai Shan restaurant. Ultimately, this proves tobe
of little importance, because, regardless of the source, I

Letters to the Editor

Owen’s piece ‘illogical, uninformed’

Dear Editor,

I am writing in reference to Ryan Owen’s piece
on the EC’s budget allocations to the Minority
Student Association. I once thought that Brett
Kirwan’s pro-sweat shop commentary would be
the illogical and uninformed thing I would see
printed in a student publication during my time
here at W&L. Last week, I was proven wrong.

There is not a liberal conspiracy being run
out of the EC office. The EC does not distribute
money according to special interests. Mr. Owen
noted that the College Republicans and GCF does

‘not receive any money. Just to test his theory of

special interest funding, I sent out an e-mail to the
EC members, asking them if they belonged to
MSA, College Republicans, or GCF. Of the seven
members who responded, six are members of Col-
lege Republicans and four are members of GCF.

, None of them are members of MSA. Perhaps Mr.

Owen should have picked a ﬁght with the word-

ing of the budget allocation procedures that do
not allow funding of politically or ideologically
_ based organizations and not the EC for funding
‘ according to its own guidelines.

The MSA is more than another Contact Com-

4 mittee. For some reason or another, Mr. Owen has

developed this idea that the sole purpose of the
MSA is to bring speakers here. That couldn’t be
more false. The money that goes to the MSA funds

L many programs during Hispanic Heritage Month,

Black History Month, Womens’ Month, and Asian
Heritage Month. They are largely responsible for

; the MLK Jr. Celebration in February. They host

activities during Homecoming and Parents’ Week-

3 end in addition to the Annual Jazz Cabaret. They
contribute to LIFE’s “A -Night to Remember,”

Project Hope, HRA’s Food Drive, and they volun-

Ii teer through Nabors Service League. And that’s

in addition to bringing excellent speakers here like

A poet and author Maya Angelou, activist Yolanda

King, and editorialist Ruben Navarrette (not

4 “Ruben Everett,” as Mr. Owen claims). And if you
, want to call into question the utility of the MSA
.’ bringing minority speakers here, it should be noted
I that Contact has not had a minority speaker here

in the past two years. Not a single one. Simply,

I putting all of this together comes at a price.

So to Mr. Owen, if you want to attack the way
the system is set up, ﬁne. Good for you. Maybe
the rules surrounding the budget distribution will

be changed. But if you’re going to attack organi-
: zations for providing alternatives to students on
j this campus, you better have the facts to back up
' your claims. And you Mr. Owen, don’t have the
/facts. You’ve successfully managed to throw

around biased claims of misappropriation of funds
without doing any research whatsoever. If you
want an issue to investigate, why not ask the ad-
ministration and trustees why there’s only $350,
000 for all student organizations. That’s a laugh-
able amount compared to most schools.

OWll\ill)NS

was up all Tuesday night and most of Wednesday with
a severe fever, terriﬁc nauseaand explosive diarrhea. Who
would’ve guessed that Chinese has an expression for
simultaneously vomiting and expelling diarrheal stool?

Well, it does and lots of other

LIVE FROM CHINA colorfully descn-PM mm,
BRETT KIRWAN ‘O4 V°Cab“‘a‘¥- _

~‘%{—~ Defyingalladvicetothe

contrary,ImadethegraveenoroffallingillinChina
However, thanks to the diligence of the local doctors,
hospital and hotel staff, not to mention some very caring
classmates, Iarnnow both alive and well The experience
highlighted a number of cultural differences.

Firstly, thank heaven for the overpopulation in
China. One side effect is the complete overstaﬁing of
every shop, stall, hotel, attraction and to11rist trap. As
such, when I was laid up with an IV drip for 36 hours,
there were seven or eight different hotel employees ea-
gerly helping by boiling water, adjusting my blankets,
checking the speed of my drip and just smiling a whole

Kirwan studies Chinese medicine first hand

lot The average Holiday Inn might have two desk clerks
and four or ﬁve cleaning ladies during the day. It seemed
as if the Tai Bai Vacation Vrlla had ten employees just on
my ﬂoor.

Additionally, the Chinese are much quicker to pre-
scribeanIVthanaWestern doctor. Ir1theU.S., otherthan
for anesthesia, I have never had an IV. In China, no less
than ﬁve separate bottles of antibiotics, glucose and
saline solution werepurnpedinto me. Luckily, theneedles
are disposable and, who knows why, all the hotel service
personnel seernedtoknow howtochangeanIV.

Finally, if you ever travel to China to visit geologic
wonders, think twice about going to Tai Bai Shari See
theThreeGorges,theTrbetansteppesortlIeGobiDesert
To date, at least ﬁfteen fellow students have taken ill
following our trip to the mountainside holiday play-
ground In fact, but for the help of my healthy classmates
and teachers, the hotel staff, gallons of IV ﬂuid, and one
massive shot in the rear, I might have been left on that
mountainside.

Sincerely,
Phil Walotsky ‘05

Anti-MSA article biased, racist in views

I was reading the funny papers the other
day and I ran across this comic strip that I
thought was just simply hilarious. It was about
this student that called, e—mailed, and gener-
ally harassed these members of the Minority
Student Association. He tried to do interviews,
tried to get our budget, and then wrote an ar-
ticle in the school paper about his misadven-
tures. I know it’s funny already, but here’s the
punch line...He said that minorities on this
campus had too much access to university re-
sources. L.O.L. Quickly I realized that the joke
was really on me; this guy was actually seri-
ous. Is this guy just racist or just really stu-
pid? Maybe both? Well here’s my take on the
issue. ,

With the lighter side of this discussion put
aside, I will delve into something with a little
more substance. I will try to ignore specifics
like Hugh Downs’ suggestion that CONTACT
should bring, or is capable of bringing, relevant
minority speakers; there isn’t enough Advil in
the world. I will simply focus on the main point:
Minorities are given too much money. There
are many ways to shred this argument, but I
will take the financial analysis route. Get your
spreadsheets ready!

John Stossel seems to think that W&L pro-
vides more than adequate resources for its mi-
nority students. Well if Geraldo had ever vis-
ited a similar institution he would know that
there are several glaring resource omissions at
our school. Let’s start with Staff. Most schools
of our size and reputation have multicultural
offices. We do not. We do not even have one
staffer. That’s right, zero! Second, many
schools of our size and reputation have
multicultural buildings independent of hous-
ing and university commons. These are places
to hold special events, keep art, and house the
multicultural department, among many other
things. This school also has an inadequate
multicultural studies program. Here, you are
lucky to find a multicultural class, much less
major in it. In fact, I was surprised to find re-
cently that I couldn’t take two such classes
next term because they are scheduled at the
same time. This school even allowed one of
the top young black professors in this country
to leave for Vanderbilt last year. He wanted to
stay. What do you think might have persuaded
him to go? Essentially what this school has
done is given us $14,000 to keep our mouths
shut about these things. Well now I have been
given sufficient impetus to speak. Thanks
Donahue!

Let’s not go too far and just stop right
there. There need be no mention of MSA; let’s
just talk about aggregate funds for

multicultural related activities.

I am a business major so I would be remiss
if I did not attempt to price the four-year cost
of all the aforementioned items. Well first, let’s
add a three person multicultural staff being
paid at $35,000 a year. We’ll add a building
priced at $500,000 with $50,000 maintenance
and janitors each year. Then let’s add a staff
for Multicultural studies. Let’s say that this
department would have 3 professors and a sec-
retary, each at an average of $45,000 a year.
Now let’s total it from 2000 to 2003 (or my 4
academic years). I thought about adding an
“intellectual enrichment” interest rate, but that
would be “unnecessary roughness.” However,
our four-year total is still $1.8 million. Make
the cashier’s check payable to “Unnecessarily
Attacked Minorities” and don’t touch our EC
funds.

I will leave the issue with this. It has been
said that blacks such as myself live by the
“Wish Factor.” This means that we wish folks
would try some foolishness. It is true in this
case. I enthusiastically wish the EC would re-
duce funding to MSA next year. I would bring
my alumni card down here just as fast as my
car could go. I would just go straight to the
President’s office and let him know just how I
felt about it. I would tell him that his school
was not living up to his own expectations and
how they better get on some of these other
items real quick. The trouble for the school is
that I don’t think I would be alone. There are
many students that have already graduated and

endured the absurdity of students on this cam- 

pus that would love to do the same. People
should know that minorities do not come to
Lexington, Virginia, of all places, to be harassed
by silly students and their silly ideas. If people
want us to leave, too bad. We are here for good
so get used to it. And get used to a new word,
its called “progress.”

Sincerely,

Toussaint Crawford ‘03

OWEN RESPONDS:

While Mr. Walotsky and particularly Mr.
Crawford make convincing arguments for wor-
thy causes, neither truly addresses what I said in
my article last week. The greatest intention of my
article last week was to point out that the Stu-
dent Activity Fee is not being used in the way it
was intended or the way it is purported to be
used. The current state allows one group, al-
though deserving of funding, to steal from all
other groups. I did not intend to be racist in
choosing the MSA as my example; I simply picked
the grossest example of my point. If you have any-
thing at all to say relative to my article, please
feel free to contact me. I kindly repeat my call for
students to become more aware of the situation
surrounding the funding of campus organiza-
tions, and furthermore to become involved.

  

Want to be
heard on
campus? Write
for the Phi.
Contact Irrrran
at X4060 or
phi@wlu.edu.

Americas #1 Student Tour
Operator

lnforrnation/Reservations
1-800-648-4849 or
www.ststravel.com

A MIND OF STATE

 

TEX - LEX

2002

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2002

Avoid death penalty for snipers

 

rem COLTESY or inW<ErEc1R1cH.4rRco

THE HUI‘ SEAT. There’ll be a hot time in the old time tonight if Ashcroft gets his way.

So as I start writing my column
for this week I have in front of me a
letter I found on the Washington Post 3"
website. It is a mirror copy of a letter
from Virginia Attorney General Jerry
Kilgore to the US Attorney General
John Ashcroft. If you
know my politics at
all, you know that I
am hardly a fan of
Mr. Ashcroft. Well,
Mr. Kilgore is hardly a favorite of mine
at the moment, either.

Acting with the blessing of
Democratic Governor Mark Warner,
Kilgore wrote to Ashcroft requesting
that Virginia and Maryland be allowed
to prosecute the accused in the DC
area sniper case. This would keep the
case out of federal courts, thus allow-
ing for Virginia to pursue the death
penalty on both John Allan
Muhammad and John Lee Malvo, the
latter being a juvenile.

However, a kink may have been
thrown in this plan as reports released
Friday indicate that investigators in
Baton Rouge, Louisiana, have linked
the gun used in the attacks in DC to an
attempted robbery and murder there at
a hair salon. If this pans out that now
means that there will be three states
lining-up to prosecute these two men.
CNN also said on Friday that Attorney
General Ashcroft indicated investiga-
tors are looking for more suspects in
that case. These factors could possi-
bly push the case into federal courts.

None of these things really have
me in an uproar. What I am concerned
about is the punishment that would
face those convicted of these crimes,
be it Muhammad, Malvo, or anyone
else for that matter. Nationwide, com-
passion and sympathy has been
shown for the families and victims of
these shootings. For this the citizens
of this country are to be commended
and celebrated. It seems that we rec-
ognize the death of others, knowing
nothing about them at all, as a truly
horrible thing.

However, when it comes to the
criminals themselves, our political lead-
ers, and truly, the public as a whole

LEFT OF CENTER
NICK RAMSEY ‘()3

want nothing more than to see the
guilty dead. What has truly depressed
me is, according to CNN, that
Muhamrnad’s former wife and his son
have stated they support the use of
the death penalty against Muhammad
if he is convicted.

Current atti-
tudes against Iraq
and those accused
in the sniper case
show America is bent on getting ven-
geance These attitudes are fueled by
massive amounts of fire power in the
case of Iraq and antiquated forms of
“justice” in the case against
Muhammad and Malvo. If death is
such a horrible thing for the irmocent,
why are we so quick to change our
minds with criminals?

Equality and the protection of life .

are basic rights deemed fundamental
by the documents written by our
founding father. Ifthese rights are truly
universal and absolute, they should
apply to those most detested by soci-
ety. This is the greatest test of our col-
lective tolerance. This is not to say that
these men deserve to run free. In cases
of crimes this heinous, life without pa-
role is truly in order.

But even religious groups and in-
dividuals, typically the conservative
sort, tend to support the death pen-
alty. This goes against the teachings
of all of the worlds prominent religions.
I fail to understand why the promise of
eternal consequence is not enough to
alleviate their desire for justice. Any
earthly death is nothing compared to
the promise of eternal damnation. But
again, this is nothing for men to be
concerned about. For those that be-
lieve in a higher power, religious teach-
ings indicate that it is for Him or Her
and not us to be concerned with such
things.

Thus, if my ramblings have done
anything, I hope that they have made
my readers pause and evaluate their
feelings on capital punishment. Do we
as a society really need the deaths of
anyone, be they murders, rapists, or
terrorists, on our collective con-
science?

.- .5
‘5 “N «ox

$.11 3 I-\...~=

Notegrasse, ,-

  

"<\"7‘
2’ ”“_
i:i‘a.txl,,,
 ‘gt’     
‘  {twat   r.i/=...... is...-»~.z..§‘x.....2

Upcoming Events;

-w ..~ t v-'~-2 ~s‘_;. "‘ “ )
 at ‘%.3.:r::%; t...-.rt.i%.’...§,,,,§»w"«

 .,.. ._ .. it, .. ”*', at
 at 2:s<:.: {,-.§..:x..,.§_,,,j+«v
‘ gave 
‘K . & l V r us 1
.5‘ ‘xi. at... zeta.‘ is §‘%.:},,,:’

,‘r_7ouv. "W"

M « .;..%é.>.:a at i- 

s:..

are t, E
W

  sit 
I-.=.tct~\r,“‘<~ 

_ 1 4 . X 1..
E4“ °";al-Q sr‘\ - ﬁg  / ‘ 2:‘:
4. ii "xi 623%,.  *=»..$..€..

 1,. ,.b H . .
g i

    
 
  

Ci Ge 

 
   
 
 

 lit?‘ .4
uitk 9*‘

 

The new Wastmirggtrrzn Past Electrmic Editican is the perfect way ta get. The Past when you iive outaiée the
heme deiivery area“. when vtnfre at schml... am: when V01: still want In enfezzsr the 130$, fee and ccmtext.
01’ The Pzzstfs print s.=:dit.ir::n.

Get. it deiiverved digitally td yrmar camputer or Iaptup ﬁrgt thing every marning, seven éays 3 week, at home,
d-arm, crmce, —an1.rwhe:=e.

Looks}u$tiike'Ti1e Post because it is The Past.

1 is an exact dégltal repiica of the davfs prim ediﬁon.

includes articie-5, p'ham5, c.ﬁi.um.nists., comics, graphics and ads.
Searchahla and in_tera.ct:iv‘e.

See how right? the marning Feels with The Was‘h'Engt:;m Post.deiive1'~e& your way, every day.

if E Bil! lllﬂflfﬂ almut  Washington NS! ectrenit: WWO -
Hlcllillillﬁ IIGW WI! Eﬁli 9381 H FREE ml‘ M8 WBBKS-HE

C021-It-9* WEEL

 

  

PAGE 6

BY SHARYN REGAN
SFAW WRITER

As fall term draws to a close, the
thought of Greek life among
freshmen changes from an abstract
concept to something that is both
concrete and looming on the horizon.
As a freshman, I know very little
about the topic of sorority
recruitment at this point, although I
certainly plan on participating in it in
all of its ‘daunting glory this winter.
There are, however, a few important
rules that I’ve learned during my
short time here at W&L. These are
basic rules of behavior that should
help you to know how to present
yourself best come January. Let me
enlighten you as to what I have
discovered so far:

1. Do not ask an upper class
female what sorority she is in. She
may become insulted and think that
you are only speaking with her in
an attempt to wheedle your way into
her sorority. Talk to her as a friend,
not as a ticket into a particular
sorority.

2. Be yourself. Someone who
is overly enthusiastic or fake will
seem pathetic not only to her peers,
but to possible sorority sisters as

 

well. Dress how you like to dress,
say what you’d usually say, behave
how you always behave (within
reason).

3. Be careful who you flirt with.
You just may, unbeknownst to you,
be flirting with a sorority girl’s
boyfriend and that will not make her
or any of her friends very happy. In
fact, it will probably make them all hate
you.

4. Do not be sexually
promiscuous. I cannot emphasize
this point enough. Washington and
Lee is a small school, and people will
find out about your escapades.
Sororities do not want bad
reputations, and if you have one it
will reflect poorly upon whatever
sorority you choose, and they may
not want to accept you due to your
reputation.

5. Do not overindulge or
underindulge in “the drink”.
Demonstrate that you are both fun
and responsible/respectable.
Nobody likes a sloppy drunk.
Nobody likes a party pooper
either.

6. Dance only under the
proper circumstances. Dancing on
coffee tables when everyone
around you is sitting around
engaged in quiet conversations

Tllli RING-IURI PI

Recruitment: think about it l

makes you look stupid, and
sorority sisters will probably recall
you negatively instead of fondly
if you’ve made a complete fool of
yourself.

7. Anything documented and
easily accessible [read: the World Wide
Web] should not be distasteful.
Enough said.

8. Do not try to fit certain

stereotypes. Either you get along.

with the girls or you don’t. It’s very
simple. Don’t try to change
yourself to become more like what
you feel is desirable to a particular
house.

9. Meet as many people as
possible and remain open—minded.
Don’t dismiss girls or sororities based
on certain rumors or labels.

10. Don’t stress. The
sorority rush system is designed
so that everything works out for
the best, for the most part. As
corny as this may sound, be the
best you that you can be, have
fun, and you will find somewhere
that you fit in.

If you just follow these simple
guidelines and any others that you
may have discovered and rush
should be an enjoyable learning
experience with a positive outcome.
Good luck!

Nightly breakdown sheds light on rush

ease about the upcoming week.

“& LIEE

CAIIIERINE L. Gw

 

BY CATHERINE C. GUY
ARIS & LIFE EDITOR

After a relaxing Christmas break, Washington and
Lee’s student body descends upon Lexington anxious to
‘dive into winter term headﬁrst. However, before such
winter highlights as Lip Synch and FD can begin, freshmen
go through one of the longest and most emotional weeks
‘of their college careers; Rush Week.

Two hundred freshman girls stand in the bitter cold
of early January, each one impeccably dressed and
groomed and with a nervous smile on her face. They
‘apprehensively chatter with their friends as they stand,
shivering, in alphabetical order. Suddenly the door of
‘each sorority house bursts open, and the freshmen are
‘greeted with 90 identically dressed and singing
_upperclassmen. Does this sound a little intimidating?

Actually, it is not as bad as you might think. What
freshmen girls often don’t know and don’t expect is that
Sorority Recruitment is actually a lot of fun. You have the
opportunity to meet countless upperclassmen as well as
your own classmates, some of whom will become your

close friends in the months to come. You participate in
‘numerous activities as each sorority attempts to convince
you of how happy you will be once you join.
Here is a nightly breakdown of what goes on during
that first week of winter term. Maybe by demystifying the
process, we can make the process a little less daunting for
everyone involved.
Monday: Philanthropy Night. Monday is the most
casual night of the week. All of the girls go to each of the
,ﬁve houses clad in casual attire. Each house has its own

philanthropies, and the freshmen make crafts for these
vcharities. Basically, Philanthropy Night consists of a lot

of talking to and meeting people, while working on a none-
:too—difficult project, which the sororities then donate to
their respective charities. This night is generally
successful at putting all of the participants a little bit at

    

Tuesday: Skit Night. Tuesday is, without a doubt, the
most fun night of the entire week. Freshmen attend four
parties, still in casual attire. At each house, the freshmen
watch a humorous skit, complete with songs, dances,
dialogue, and refreshments. Freshmen have the chance to
talk to the upperclassmen before and after the skit, and
everyone leaves with an amused smile on her face.

Wednesday: Sisterhood Night. On Wednesday night,
things become a little bit more restrained, and the
participants wear more formal outﬁts. Freshmen begin to
narrow down their choices by going only to three houses,
and therefore spend more time at each of these houses.
Sisterhood night generally consists of a movie or
slideshow which demonstrates the different activities and
interests of the members of the sorority in all aspects of
life from social, to athletic, to activities. The movies may
be accompanied by songs and dances. Wednesday night
ends with the freshmen having a better understanding of
what sorority life is like.

Thursday: Pref Night. Pref Night is the most serious
as well as dressiest night of the week, and the freshmen
have narrowed down their choices to two houses. This
evening generally consists of a ritual based event in which
the upperclassmen attempt to convince the freshmen of
how much they love their sorority and why the freshmen
should want to be a part of them. After the Pref parties,
freshmen walk back to the dining hall in silence and ﬁll out
scantron—like cards in which they list their choices in order.
Panhellenic then matches freshmen to the houses, and
bids are delivered on Friday afternoon.

As someone who has been through the process twice,
once on each side, the best advice that I can give to
freshman is that they be themselves and keep an open
mind. Things tend to work out for the best in the end, and
taking any preconceived notions or stereotypes in with
you will only hurt you. A lot of minds are changed during
recruitment week. In the end, you will ﬁnd the place that is
best for you.

Not justagame,a
tradition; Drinking
games, such as
beiruit, or beer
pong shown on
the left, have been
a part of W&L’s
party scene for
years. Now,
however, the
Alcohol Task
Force has ended
the reign of such
games on school
property. The
article to the right
provides some
creativealternatives.

ll'I'['P'.Wl~lOlv1EJ5All'Ill1ll\ll£l\."ET/~(IrlO\\L’DH)/Bl)/PAGES/lNDEQ.H1‘l\l

Happy Hundredth, Mom!

Love, the Phi Staff

 

ARlS&LlPEEDllOR '
FJ\lAlL'GLY LEDU
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2002
V
V
)
In
it
V.
it
V
Y
9
Unwelcome The reaction by some meers of the student body to‘ thecolonization of soros 089.  to ay, e
sororities were viewed negatively by the males of campus, as can be seen in this cartoon from the Rz'ng—2‘ur/2 Pbi, onjanuary ll, 1990
i
E h°b't ' D tth' k
}«‘ROMg1"AFFRE1>QR’[3 based on an antique biology on the one hand we capture,killand ‘
collection discovered at his home eat anirnals,onthe other, we extoltheir
Beginning today Robert Sulkin school of Hollins. He re— virtues in nature, literature, myth and
Professor 0fArt at Hollms University: contextualizes various bird, reptile art. . _ .
. . . . . . and mammal specimens that have Sulkin received his MFAfrom the F
is exhibiting a collection of his recent , . _ , .
photographs here at Washington and been stuffed or floated in University of Iowa and has exhibited
Lee,S dupom Gallery The openin formaldehyde. The result is astudy widely, both nationally and
reception and artist  will be hekgl of mortality as well as one of the internationally. He has taught at
on Friday’ November 8 at 5:30 pm All delicate balance between horror and Hollms since 1980 and has served two
are invited. beauty. terms as the Chair of the Art
Sulkhfs exhibit vvhichis entitled His more recent works Department. Locally, his workcan also
..Bi010gica1St.1uL.1feS’.,reﬂeCtShiS1jfe_ incorporate bones and dried animal be seen at the Lexington Art Gallery.
long interest in congtructed images remains harvested from a ﬁeld near His duPont exhibit will run from
involving models and arrangements’ his home. He explores the tensions November 4 to December 13, 2002. b
that he Created and photographed in between life and death and the Gallery hours are Monday through
the Studio‘ Part ofthe Shovvincludes contradictory behavior of humans Friday,'8:00 to 5:00. For more
,, . . . ,, . toward animals. He feels that, while iriforrnation,call463-8861.
the Nobilis in Morte series, a study
i
’ I 0
Take a closer look at one of W &L s ﬁner traditions
By BRYAN EARLY and let the goodness of vintage 1970s steel fill you
 up until you no longer possess the ability to see or
think. ’
Disc—Up: The Two Dead Guys, W&L’s up-and-
SeenF3::rH);:::n1{gn§l: :,:§)o:I:(?i?:iI1é:1::rg13)' Zrlfrzrfzfiilrﬁi coming powerhouse ultimate Frisbee team has been
and Sa that a very 1ar’ge portion of the campus has known to be composed of some of the rowdiest, most g
t  d the. h d t few of them But the IFC and self—destructive and belligerent disc—huckers this side
teli’endne'nistr:tio2i1nh:vea stated that as the are a art of the Appalachian Mountains" The key to their
eda Ilnht I Sa an inte ml art’ of th: notogous’ uncanny ability to put down all of their opponents
ail :1 llg It reyher t évashlin {on and Lee the off—the Frisbee field, is their ability to chug 40 ounces _
ahco 1: C1: bu 110 Z: in on if from of or End; of malt liquor goodness straight from the disc. While ’
S on 10 .1‘; a  t 0’ u’knOw drunlgtunnelin the occasional dried leaf or clump ofirnud gets
 a uloodnigdseggus 5 yo ’ g accidentally downed along with the frothy delight, by
S 51 ff. . '11 th do indeed remain strike the time you’re done you really just don’t care about
° W ‘ ° ° ‘C13 V “V ' things like that. ,

tastic, does that mean that people are really going stop
playing them? Of course not. You would be a fool to
think that simple rules would stop the proliferation of
drinking games here at our fine academic institution.
As long as there are freshmen girls who will be
impressed by the fact that a frat guy can sink nine cups
to her one in a game of beruit, alcohol games will always
be a part of parties at Washington and Lee. Besides, if
you know what you want to do with your evening (and
you know that what you want to is get drunk), then
why not have a little bit more fun while being social
about doing it?

Thus, adhering to that well-known and ancient
Confucian proverb, “Fun is fun, but more fun is more
fun,” I will add to the general knowledge of those who
want to spice up their mundane lives with a bit with a
series of quick briefs about a few of these more off—the-
beaten track Forbidden Games. These go beyond the
old standard games such as beiruit, ﬂip cup, a**hole,
and suits, and add a bit more color to each weekends
lineup.

Oil Change: This one is a classic over the border
in West Virginia, our illustrious neighbor to the west.
First, you need to locate and gain temporary
possession of an old American car that has already
been seasoned out in the elements for at least twenty
years and hasn’t been driven for about as long
either. You also need to have in your possession
several gallons of moonshine. Then you fill up the
oil tank with your beverage of choice (here’s where
the oldness of the car comes in, so the oil is all
dried out and can be replaced cleanly with the
aforementioned moonshine) and fight your way
through the powerful ecosystem that has been
developing underneath your car, pull the oil plug

Circle of Annihilation: You get four decks of cards
and you deal them out in eight, concentric rings. The
cards have point values, much like in Black Jack and
each ring is multiplied by the number of rings it is away

from the outermost ring. Then you pick any card and call ‘

the color (red or black, for those of you who have never
had the pleasure of playing)——if you’re right, you choose
one of your co—players whom you don’t like very much

and they are forced to drink that number of sips of beer. 5

If you’re wrong, however, you have to do it. This game
has been banned in several states, as well as in French
Guinea, where the entire country’s fraternity system

tragically wiped itself out in the late 70s playing this
3

game.

Flip-Table: This game is quite similar to its tamer and
better known cousin “Flip Cup,” only it’s considerably
more destructive as well as a good deal more fun. It’s best

to set up in an open and empty ﬁeld, putting a good i

distance between the opposing teams. Then you measure
from the start to anywhere from around 30 yards to 2.7
miles for a finish line, prepare several cases of beer, and
get set to play. The teams line up and, in succession,
pound their drinks. When they ﬁnish, they flip over their *‘
respective tables—attempting to get as much distance on
it as possible. They set it up again where it lands and keep
going until they cross the line, pass out, or get their table
stuck up in a tree. i
So this coming weekend, when you get tired of sitting
around in your basement and sipping on yet another case

of Natty with your friends while watching something less

than stimulating on TV, I suggest that you start up an
impromptu round of one of these pleasurable activities. I!
guarantee that you will be, without a doubt, the most
popular person around for days, and maybe even week
to come. I‘

 

    

]l'<RElilYl*lW\l1{llN
SPOKISEDHOR
FMAll:FRtN1\1ll\l]@\V1L‘E)U

 

THE li1NG~Ttl.\:i Pa

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2002

PORTS

PAGE 7

&L beat ridgewater, advances in ODACS

Generals avenge 1-1 tie
from regular season, look
for revenge against Va.
Wesleyan in semifinals

BY DAVID CROWELL
.lS$lSTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee
women’s soccer team took the first
step towards trying to become the
ﬁrst—ever group in program history to
win the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference Tournament with a 2-0
quarterﬁnal victory over Bridgewater
on Saturday afternoon at the Liberty
Hall Fields.

With the win, the Generals also
avenged a 1-1 tie with the Eagles from
Oct. 19. The tie destroyed hopes of
W&L earning the top seed in the tour-
nament and, according to coach Neil
Cunningham, provided plenty of moti-
vation for his squad to exact vengeance.

“We certainly had our own moti-
vation to come out and win. They
were disappointed with the tie and that
Bridgewater stopped us from being

Wesleyan avenges loss,
ends men’s soccer year

Generals fall to Bridgewater, VWC to end 2002 campaign

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s
soccer team didn’t ﬁnish the season
on a strong note, falling to
Bridgewater in the regular-season
ﬁnale and dropping a 4-0 decision
to Virginia Wesleyan in the
quarterﬁnals of the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference Tournament.

The Generals forfeited the right I
to open the ODAC Tournament by
losing a 1-0 match to the Eagles at
the Turf Field on Wednesday. W&L
had plenty of chances, but couldn’t
convert against Eagles goalkeeper
Jon Boller.

“I think our kids weren’t real
sharp today,” W&L coach Rolf
Piranian said.
“We played
pretty ﬂat, and
we struggled to
put things to-
gether. We’ve
got to play our
game, 90 min-
utes of it, and
we didn’t see that today.”

Despite being outshot 17-9,
Bridgewater had several decent scor-
ing opportunities. Griff Diguardo
beat W&L senior goalie Tim Foley
following a free kick at 36:55 of the
ﬁrst half.

John Williamson had a couple
of opportunities to add to the
Eagles’ advantage in the second half,
but he shot wide twice.

The Generals failed to convert
on several scoring chances, espe-
cially in the ﬁnal minutes of the
game. Senior forward Brad Murphy

 

PIMNLAN

TOURNAMENT WIN. Senior defender Lindsey Duran (13) and the
Generals defeated Bridgewater 2-0 in the ODAC quarterﬁnals on

the No. 1 seed,” he said. “I didn’t
have to remind them in practice. The
girls knew they could beat them and
came out and did that.”

sent a couple of shots just wide of
the net, and junior midﬁelder Jacob
Stoehr drilled one off the crossbar
in the ﬁnal minute.

The 1-0 win marked the first time
the Eagles had beaten W&L, and
Bridgewater’s 5 -4 conference record
was its first-ever winning mark in the
ODAC.

“They beat us, and they
haven’t beaten us before,” Piranian
said. “They’re pretty athletic, they
did the things they do well, and put
their chance away. I guess they’re
improved.”

W&L’s season ended in Norfolk
on Saturday, as Virginia Wesleyan
avenged a 4-1 loss from Oct. 26 with
a 4-0 win to knock the Generals out
of the ODAC Tournament.

After playing to a scoreless tie at
halftime, the Marlins got on the board
at 50:57 on a goal by Pat McStay. Foley
was ejected after receiving a red card
at 66:50, and Wesleyan converted on
the penalty kick.

The Marlins added a pair of in-
surance goals against freshman keeper
Michael Stanton, while Wesleyan
keeper Sean Wheaton made four
saves to record the shutout.

The Generals ﬁnished the season
at 7-9-2, 5-4 in the ODAC. That’s afar
cry from 1-5-1 and 0-3, where W&L
found itself at the end of September.

“Give credit to the kids, because
they’ve hung tough through some
tough times and played some good
soccer,” Piranian said. “They’ve
battled their way to get us out of
that hole. The games we’ve lost since
that stretch have all been heartbreak-
ers, where we’ve had our chances
and just didn’t convert.”

W&L SPORTS SCHEDULES NOVEMBER 4-10

Friday, Nov. 8
Field Hockey (ODAC Semiﬁnals)
W&L at Lynchburg, 11:30 am.
Women’s Soccer (ODAC Semifinals)
W&L vs. Virginia Wesleyan (at Roanoke),
2 p.m.
Volleyball (ODAC Quarterfinals)
W&L vs. TBD (at Eastern Mennonite),
5 p.m.
Men’s and Women's Swimming
Randolph-Macon at W&L, 7 p.m.

Saturday, Nov. 9
Wrestling
W&L at McDaniel Invitational, 10 a.m.

Volleyball (ODAC Tournament at EMU)
W&L in Semifinals, 10:30 a.m.

W&L in Finals, 3 p.m.

Field Hockey (ODAC Finals)
W&L/Lynchburg vs. EMUlFioanoke (at

Lynchburg), 1 p.m.

Football

Emory & Henry at W&L, 1 p.m.
Women’s Soccer (ODAC Finals)
W&L/VWC vs. RoanokelLynchburg (at

Roanoke), 1:30 p.m.
Men's Swimming
W&L at Mary Washington, 2 p.m.

 Amamttai Geiger’ never saw the clsmnk driver.

‘ V Frinndu nan»: Lu Briana cmuunmnu.

For most of the first half, the
third-seeded Generals -— the 16th-
ranked team in Division IH — seemed
to encounter the same problem as

FIIE PHOIO

Saturday at the Liberty Hall Fields behind goals from sophomore
Molly Plurrirner (9) and freshman Gina Von Stemberg.

‘they did in their previous match ver-

sus Bridgewater.
The W&L offense clearly set the
tone and kept the ball in the Eagles’

zone throughout the first 45 minutes,
but failed to muster a goal. Freshman
midﬁelder Gina Von Stemberg had a
couple of good looks, but nothing
materialized.

At the 21:30 mark, sophomore
forward Molly Plummer collided with
the goalie and the ball trickled toward
the goal line, but was saved by a
Bridgewater defender.

Despite the failure to capitalize
on a clear shot advantage in the first
half, Cunningham said his team stayed
composed at halftime.

“We did the same thing the last
time we played them. We had lots and
lots of shots, but we almost needed
an early goal to settle us down,” he
said. “We were much better this time
because we didn’t hit the panic but-
ton and we knew we still had plenty
of time.

“If we keep creating chances,
we’ll get one eventually.”

The Generals continued to fire
away as the defense played superb
with freshman Heather Rogers mov-
ing the ball upfield a number of
times to keep the Eagles on their
heels.

“We have to play well in the back.
We’re not going to blow teams out,
so we need to win 1-0 or 2-0. We have
to shut teams down,” Cunningham
said.

The Generals ﬁnally got one past
Bridgewater goalkeeper Julianne
Blevins when Plummer scored on a
header off a centering pass from
sophomore forward Maggie Hope at
49:32.

“That goal was really pretty. It
was probably one of our nicest goals
of the season,” Cunningham said. “It
was well-created and it was a great
ﬁnish.”

The Generals continued to con-
trol the ball and — despite a long run
down the ﬁeld by Bridgewater’s top
scorer, Sarah Pritchett —— kept the
Eagles from threatening.

Von Stemberg ﬁnished the scor-
ing at 82:29 after a well-executed ﬂip

* throw by senior midﬁelder Jenny Tho-

mas led to a jumble in front of the net.
The Generals return to action
when they travel to host city Roanoke
to face No. 2 Virginia Wesleyan, the
only team to beat W&L during the
regular season, at 2 p.m. on Friday.

Generals win 1st tournament match

BY BARRETT DAWS
SPORTS WRITER

On Saturday, the fourth-seeded
Washington and Lee field hockey
team won its ﬁrst—ever Old Dominion
Athletic Conference Tournament vic-
tory as it defeated ﬁfth-seeded Virginia
Wesleyan, 1-0, on the W&L Turf Field.

Excitement was high as the Gen-
erals took the ﬁeld. “Being in our first
ODAC Tournament really gave us
something to ﬁght for,” said freshman
goaltender Courtney Harrison, who
recorded one save in her 35 minutes
in goal.

W&L (10-8) outplayed the Mar-
lins (7-9) in everyaspect. The Gener-
als held a 7-0 edge in penalty comers
and outshot Wesleyan 15-2.

The Generals scored the game’s
only goal with 11:08 remaining in the
second half. Junior forward Kelly
Taffe took charge of a loose ball and
passed it to freshman forward
Elisabeth Putney, who then pro-
ceeded to shoot and ﬁnd the back of
the cage.

After the game, Putney was ec-
static about her team’s performance,

F1113 PHOIO

QUARTERFINAL WIN. Sophomore Grace Barlow (12) and junior Kelly Taffe helped
lead W&L to a 1-0 win over  Wesleyan in the ODAC Tournament on Saturday.

saying that the team “really came to-
gether and played great.”

Only feeding this excitement level
was the home-ﬁeld advantage. For the
Generals, the beneﬁts of playing at
home this weekend were twofold.

First, the energy of the “great
crowd which was always at our backs
offering support” greatly affected
W&L’s performance, Harrison said.

The second advantage for the
Generals was the ﬁeld itself. W&L is

accustomed to playing on artificial
turf, and Eastern Mennonite is the
only other ODAC school to play its
home games on turf.

“The turf always makes a huge
difference in both the speed and pass-
ing ability of each team,” Harrison
said.

Harrison and classmate Elise
Gelinas combined to shut out Virginia
Wesleyan, with each player logging a
half in goal. Virginia Wesleyan sopho-
more goaltender Margie Baker also
had an impressive game, stopping
nine shots in the Marlins’ net.

“We ﬁnally proved to ourselves
that we could play a hard-fought, full,
70-minute game,” Harrison said.

The Generals will return to action
at 11:30 a.m. on Friday as they travel
to top-seeded Lynchburg for an
ODAC Semiﬁnal match. Despite a 2-0
regular-season loss, W&L is conﬁ-
dent that they can upset the Hornets.

“Although Lynchburg is the No.
1-ranked team in the ODAC, we
played very well against them in the
regular season and we are looking
forward to trying to take their posi-
tion from them,” Harrison said.

Men, women lace 2nd at ODAC meet

Bell ﬁnished seventh by crossing the tape

FEE PHOTO

RUNNERS-UP. Freshman Molly Drake placed eighth at the
ODAC Championships on Saturday with a time of 24:32.50.

Cross country squads ﬁnish as
runners-up on the road at
conference championships

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

SALEM — Both Washington and Lee cross
country teams placed second at the Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference Championships Satur-
day at Roanoke College.

The Generals ﬁnished second in a ﬁeld of
eight teams in the men’s race, while the women
were runners-up in a six-team pool. Junior Andy
Schorr and senior Burke Duncan each ﬁnished
third overall in their respective races.

Lynchburg won the men’s race with 18
points, placing seven runners in the top nine.
Only Schorr and sophomore teammate Wes Bell
prevented the Hornets from sweeping the top
seven spots.

Schorr’s time of 26:38.56 was just a few sec-
onds behind his personal record of 26:24 in the
8,000-meter run, despite the fact that the ODAC
Championships were run on what the junior
called “a hilly course” at Roanoke.

“I was getting frustrated earlier in the sea-
son because I wasn’t running near the times I
ran freshman year,” said Schorr, who missed
most of his sophomore season because of inju-
iies. “I thought I ran well Saturday.”

at 26:5 8.37. Rounding out the scoring were three
Generals who ﬁnished 14th through 16th: sopho-
more Steve Chambers (27:49), senior Will
Teichman (27:51) and junior Rusty Meyer (27:58).

W&L’s 55 points put them a shade ahead
of Roanoke’s total of 64. In the preseason
coaches poll, the Maroons were picked second
ahead of the Generals.

“We were ranked to come in third, and we
really set our eyes on beating Roanoke,” Schorr
said. “We really wanted to beat them when it
counted at the conference meet.”

The Maroons won the women’s 6,000-meter
race with a score of 28. Although Eastern
Mennonite’s Andrea Goode ﬁnished first over-
all at 23:02.57, W&L edged the Royals for sec-
ond place by a score of 53 to 58.

Duncan finished the race in 23:53.74, while
freshman Molly Drake placed eighth at 24: 32.50.
Freshman Megan Ward turned in an 11th-place
performance with a time of 24:49.30.

Freshman Betsy Frayer and senior Jen
Fallon placed 15th and 16th to ﬁnish the scor-
ing for W&L with times of 25:15 and 25:18, re-
spectively.

Duncan and Fallon will graduate from W&L,
but all ﬁve of the men’s runners who placed for
the Generals should return next year.

“We’re probably going to be as good or
even better than we ran this year,” Schorr said,
“but it’s too early to tell.”

Keep reading the sports pages of the P/92°.

Before Thanksgiving: previews of both W&L
basketball teams and Generals Wrestling, plus coverage
of fall sports as they conclude their 2002 seasons.

Questions, comments or suggestions?
Contact Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin at fmrzré/z'rg@u//u. edu or X4060.

Listen to the
Afternoon Sports
Beat with
Jeremy Franklin
and Jake Trotter.
Sundays at 6 p.m.
on WLUR 91.5 FM
or at w|ur.wlu.edu.

 

    

PAGE 8

lltl;lt3.’\'(;--l‘=§.".§l’t-fl

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2002

SPORTS

Generals sweep rival Roanoke

Volleyball secures top seed for ODAC Tournament

BARREIT DAWS/ Te Rzrrg-rm Phz

HOME SWEEP. Freshman Christine Gladysz (15) sets the ball in W&L’s 30-25, 30-14,
30-24 win over Maryville as freshman outside hitter Susan Gaillard looks on.

Mistakes abound i ls to Eagles

Seven tumovers help No. 2
Bridgewater to 44-14 win
over upset-minded Generals

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

BRIDGEWATER —— Turnovers.
Special teams mistakes. Penalties.

Take away these three factors,
and Bridgewater might have edged
Washington and Lee 3-0 on Saturday
at Jopson Field.

Mistakes plagued both sides, but
the Generals committed more of them
in a 44-14 loss to the second-ranked
team in NCAA Division HI.

“You can’t turn over the ball in
any game, and you’ve got to have
great special teams in every game,”
W&L coach Frank Miriello said. “We
had a blocked punt and turnovers all
over the ﬁeld against the No. 2 team
in the country, and that’s just not go-
ing to happen.”

A week after his career day in a
26- 14 win over Sewanee, Sean
McGarvey had a nightmare of a game.
The junior quarterback recorded 203
yards in the air and threw a first-half
touchdown pass to senior Chris
Sullivan, but was intercepted five
times.

But after beneﬁting from good
protection against the Tigers,
McGarvey was sacked three times and
hurried on nearly every pass play by
an aggressive Bridgewater defense.

BY DoNNY BANKS
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee volley-
ball team enjoyed three impressive
wins over quality opponents this week
in the Warner Center. '

The Generals (28-7, 10-0 Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference) started
their string of victories on Tuesday
evening by defeating Mary Baldwin
30-11,30-8, 30-18.

Freshman middle blocker Susan
Gaillard recorded 10 kills and four
blocks, and sophomore outside hitter
Michelle Chastain ﬁnished with seven
kills and three blocks.

On Saturday, the team had per-
haps its best match of the season by
sweeping ODAC rival Roanoke 30-19,
30-15, 30-16. Both teams entered the
contest undefeated in conference play.

“It was nice finally to have a
home match on a Saturday,” head
coach Bryan Snyder said. “We were
able to come out strong and never let
up. Also, we fixed some of the com-
munication problems which had hurt
us earlier in the year and that really
showed, as we really had only one
error in that facet the whole match.”

 

FELE Pnorio

JUST our or REACH. Sophomore Taylor Callaham, shown here in W&L’s 7-3

Homecoming win over Randolph-Macon on Oct. 5, caught six passes for 60 yards
in the Generals’ 44-14 road loss to Bridgewater on Saturday.

“Sean’s throwing the ball well,
but he just can’t keep throwing inter-
ceptions,” Miriello said. “But I’m not
blaming Sean. They had so much pres-
sure on him.”

The 30-point margin of victory
wasn’t really indicative of how well
the Generals’ defense played. W&L
outgajned Bridgewater 363-316, and
the Eagles had three touchdown
drives that began in the Generals’ red
zone after two turnovers and a blocked
punt

“The first half, we had a good
plan, executed the plan, and kept them
under control,” Miriello said. “Our

goal going in was not to give up the

. big play, but then they had a couple

of big plays on defense.”

After building up a 17-0 lead on a
Kyle Beach ﬁeld goal, a 1-yard TD rim
by Jamie Langley and a 27-yard touch-
down pass from Robbie Jenkins to
Andre Jones, Bridgewater looked to
be in complete control.

But the Eagles didn’t play mis-
take-free football either, particularly in
the second quarter. Midway through
the period, McGarvey lost a fumble at
the W&L 17-yard line. On the next
play, Nicholas Lehto ran a wide re-
ceiver reverse all the way to the 1-

Leading the charge against the
Maroons was Chastain, who had 12
kills, eight digs and two blocks.
Gaillard had another good game with
12 kills and three blocks, and sopho-
more outside hitter Emily Wolﬁng to-
taled 10 kills and 11 digs.

Sophomore libero Jennifer Lux
recorded 12 digs, and freshman setter
Christine Gladysz notched 34 assists
and 12 digs.

Following the Roanoke win, the
Generals ﬁnished their regular-season
campaign by defeating Maryville. The
team authoritatively avenged a prior
loss to the Fighting Scots in three
games, 30-25, 30-14, 30-24.

Chastain had another great game
with 15 kills and 10 digs, and Wolﬁng
added 12 kills and 17 digs. Lux col-
lected 17 digs, while Gladysz added
37 assists and 14 digs.

The Generals will continue play
on Friday in the ODAC Tournament
at Eastern Mennonite. They enter the
eight-tearn tournament as the top seed
and with a lot of conﬁdence.

“With the No. 1 seed, we won’t
have to see Bridgewater or Roanoke
until the ﬁnals of the ODAC, which is
a big advantage,” Snyder said.

yard line, then fumbled the baH out of
the end zone for a Generals touch-
back. '

W&L responded by driving 80
yards, including a 42-yard Sullivan
rush and a 23-yard pass from
McGarvey to sophomore fullback
Chris Cararnore. Bridgewater added a
15-yard personal foul penalty in the
middle of the series, and Sullivan
capped off the drive with a 1-yard
touchdown plunge.

The Generals got the ball back
with 1:27 remaining in the half and
seemed content to run the clock down.
But a pass interference penalty
pushed W&L into Bridgewater terri-
tory, and McGarvey hit Sullivan on a
36-yard scoring strike with 13 seconds
left before halftime.

But things unraveled for the
W&L offense in the second half, as
McGarvey threw four interceptions
and the Generals never got in rhythm
on offense. The defending national
runners-up took full advantage of the
visitors’ mistakes.

The Generals (3-5, 2-3 Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference) have two
winnable games left on their sched-
ule, starting with Emory & Henry on
Saturday at Wilson Field. W&L
hasn’t beaten the Wasps since 1982.

“Our goal is to win ﬁve games,
and Emory & Henry is in the way of
that,” Miriello said. “'1his team will
have been 5-5 four straight years. I
think the seniors deserve that, and
that’s the focus right now.”

Swimmers battle Transylvania on road

Generals split pair of
non—conference meets

FROM STAFF REPORTS

LEXINGTON, Ky. — The Wash-
ington and Lee men’s and women’s
swim teams traveled to Transylvania
on Saturday for non—conference
meets. The women’s team won 108-
97, while the Generals lost the’men’s
competition 118-83.

Senior Blair Huffman helped
W&L improve to 3-0 by winning three
events: the 1,000 Free, the 200 IlVl and
the 200 Fly. Freshman Kristine Holda
won the 50 and 100 Free events for
the Generals.

Senior Kelli Austin ﬁnished first
in the 200 Free, while sophomore
Eleanor Williams won the 200 Back.

The men dropped their season
opener, but senior Zach Fake and
sophomore Chris Colby won the 50
Free and the 200 Fly, respectively.

#1 Spring Break Vacations!

Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas,
Mazatlan, Florida, SPadre. 110% Best Prices!
Book Now & get Free Parties & Meals!
Group Discounts. Now hiring Campus Reps!
1-800-234-7007
endlesssummertours.com

Both squads return to action on
Friday when they host Old Dominion
Athletic Conference opponent
Randolph-Macon at 7 p.m.

Wrestlers open 2002-03 at

cross-town VMI Invitational

The W&L wrestlers opened the
2002-03 season on Sunday against
Division 1 competition in the VMI
Keydet Invitational.

Junior Michael Bennett led the
way for the Generals by placing sec-
ond in the 197-pound ﬂight. Bennett
defeated Brandon Zeigler of David-
son and Charles Johnson of The Cita-
del before being pinned by Virginia’s
Dan Clark in the championship.

Junior Joe Mueller also fared well
for W&L. After losing his semiﬁnal
match in the 184—pound class, Mueller
beat Gardner-Webb’s Brent Blackwell
and VMI’s Ben Chovanec to win the
consolation bracket.

Senior John Polena won his
quarterfinal match against Adam
Gisser of Gardner-Webb in the 141-
pound ﬂight before falling to even-
tual champion Chris Seta of VMI in
the semiﬁnals.

W&L freshman Grant Krapf (133
pounds), junior Corey Little (157), se-
nior Alex Poor (165), freshman Brian
Avello (174) and senior Jason Since
(184) also competed in the event.

The Generals conclude their fall
schedule by traveling to the McDaniel
Invitational on Saturday.

Men’s basketball tabbed
8th by conference coaches

The W&L men’s basketball team
was selected to ﬁnish eighth in the
ODAC by conference coaches on
Thursday.

The Generals return four starters
from a squad that ﬁnished 7-18 over-
all,4-l4inthe ODAC in 2001-02.

Fraternities . S0l'l|I‘ili8S
GIIIIIS . Slllllelll (i|'0IlIl$

Earn $1,000-$2,000 this semester with a proven CampusFundraiser
3 hour fundraising event. Our programs make fundraising easy
with no risks. Fundraising dates are ﬁlling quickly, so get with
the program! It works. Contact CarnpusFundraiser at (888) 923-
3238, or visit www.campusfundraiser.com

Randolph-Macon and Hampden-
Sydney, which both made the NCAA
Division III Tournament a season ago,
were picked first and second. Round-
ing out the poll are Roanoke, Virginia
Wesleyan, Emory & Henry,iGuilford,
Bridgewater, W&L, Eastern Menno-
nite and Lynchburg.

The Generals open the season with
the W&L T'ipotfTomnament on Nov. 22.

Riding places 3rd at ODA Cs

LYNCHBURG — The W&L
riding team placed third of four teams
at the ODAC Championships, held
Friday at Randolph-Macon Woman’s
College.

The host school finished first
with 19 points, followed by
Bridgewater at 14, W&L with 13 and
Lynchburg at 11. Hollins didn’t com-
pete in the event.

W&L concludes the fall season
on Nov. 16 at the James Madison/
Bridgewater Invitational.

W&L SWIMMING 2002-03

Women’s swimmers
anticipate strong year

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

Washington and Lee’s
women’s swim team is off to an
excellent start this season. With
two meets down, both of them
against Old DominionjAthletic
Conference opponents, the Gen-
erals are 2-0 and are loolcing to re-
tain the ODAC title this year.

Last year, four Generals’ swim-
mers graduated: Katie Kennedy,
Laura Ingoldsby, Maggie Fagan
and Anne Lachiewiscz.

Coach Kiki Moore was sad to
see them leave, but noted being es-
peciallyhuitby
In goldsby’s
loss. Ingolds-
by had been a
regular 500,
1,(XX),and1,650
freestyle swim-
mer for the
Generals, and
was named to the All-ODAC team
last year.

“Distance freestyle is a hole
we’re trying to fill right now,”
Moore said. “There’s no one per-
son who swims it regularly at this
point.”

Nevertheless, the Generals
this year have a strong senior
class. “We have ﬁve seniors this
year, and they’re an outstanding
class. They all contribute,” Moore
said.

Of special note is senior Blair
Huffman’s return. Huffman was
named to the All-ODAC squad last
year, as well as being named the
Atlantic States Swimmer of the
Year. She holds the school record
in the 400 IM, and last year made
an NCAA “B” cut, but was not
chosen to attend the meet.

Moo

 

Sprint freestyle will be fresh-
man Kristine Holda’s responsibil-
ity, while middle distance is still
junior Kelli Austin’s domain. Dis-
tance freestyle is up in the air, but
Moore speculated that sophomore
Laura Westerrnan and senior Katie
Kolle would see time in those
events.

“Laura and Katie are great util-
ity swimmers,” Moore said.
“They’re able to swim almost any
event well.” ,

The backstroke is a deep po-
sition this year, as senior Michelle
Moore, junior Mandi Kimble and
sophomore Eleanor Williams all will
be swimming those events. Kimble
and Williams were both chosen for
the All-ODAC team last year, while
Moore was abroad for Winter
Term

The Generals also have depth
in the breaststroke, with junior Erin
Dougherty, sophomore Tasia
Fisher and freshman Beth Sauer.
Fisher has been plagued by a knee
injury that prevented her from
swimming the breaststroke last
year, but Moore believes that she
is ready to return to her stroke.

Swirrirning the butterﬂy will be
Huffman, Williams and junior
Jackie Green.

Moore is happy with this
year’s team. “We’ll be competitive
for records all year in the relays.
We don’t have set relay teams yet,
either. There are lots of toss-ups,
and so we’ll be trying different or-
ders out.

“I’m looking for our upper-
classmen to provide good leader-
ship all year,” Moore added. “We
have a small freshman class, but
they’re quality swimmers. I just
want to send our seniors out on a
good note.”

W&L looks for
new leadership

Men’s team deals with resignation of head coach

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee
men’s swim team was shaken re-
cently, as head coach Andrew
Pulsifer resigned for health rea-
sons.

Nevertheless, Athletics Direc-
tor Mike Walsh moved quickly to
appoint women’s swim coach Kiki
Moore as the interim coach to al-
low the season to continue. Moore
will head the men’s team until a per-
manent replacement can be found
for next season, and a search for an
assistant coach began immediately.

“It’s a new experience for me,”
Moore said. “It’s definitely not
something we planned on. It will
probably be a challenge for the
team to adjust, but hopefully they’ll
ﬁght through the problems.”

The team is looking to ﬁll a few
holes this year. Rick Black’s gradu-
ation last year left sprint freestyle
wide open, and Moore is looking
to see who can step up to take his
place.

“We have a good freshman
class to ﬁll in where attrition and
graduations have hurt us,” she
said.

Breaststroke is another pos-
sible hole, but senior captain Zach
Fake began swimming breaststroke
late last season and has taken the
lead slot on the team.

Perhaps the strongest depart-
ments are in butterfly and distance
freestyle. Junior Drew Catanese,

sophomore Chris Colby and fresh-
men Andrew Lloyd and Reed
Evans are all very strong butterﬂy
swimmers, and relay slots will be
very competitive.

Distance freestyle is helped
by senior captain Patrick
Frankfort’s return. Frankfort made
an NCAA “B” cut time last sea-
son, but was not chosen to attend
the meet. He also set pool and meet
records at the Grove City College
Invitational last year in the 500 and
1,000 freestyle.

Freshman Clark Barrineau will
also be swimming distance events.

Moore expects a lot from her
upperclassmen this year. “I really
expect good leadership from the
two senior captains and from Mat-
thew Kimbrough (the third senior
on the team),” she said. “It may be
a challenging year, but they’ll need
to pull the freshmen along and get
this team going again.”

The relay teams will be ﬂuid
this year, as Moore tries out swim-
mers in different slots. Junior Eric
Ritter will return in the backstroke,
coming off an NCAA “A” cut time
and a school record in the 200 back.
Ritter’s “A” cut is the first in W&L
history.

Moore is optimistic, in spite of
the events of the last few weeks. “I
expect to see some very strong
freestyle relays. The medleys may
need some work, but we’ll ﬁnd the
best way to go. This team will keep
going — they’re a great bunch of

guys.”

 

