r

Artln

«.9

\"&'5':‘>'3- .

  
   

373.755

=1?-34l:r\(1-tt\3l‘l:E

v. to 5 Ii\rs:1)E

i\.,'.’“.

F’)
5..

'1
C ' “‘ CADAVERS

’.tsr-moron

    

I aiirf: j—t>.HZI;\. .

AND LEE UNl‘VERSlTY

  

 
 

L 7" :5 ;%'§(_,'~,‘r  Era:  P25:
.-  ..   INDEX

" .1N":?.ws 1

Mm 1 02002 (.)l3l.\’l()?\'L*~Z 2
l).rH'}: 3

S:><>t<'1‘s 4-

P}-51 'l‘-\Ll<.'£iA(filx;S 2

 

BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTT
EDITOR IN (IlllEl"

Alumni from 10 undergraduate and law classes descended
on Washington and Lee last weekend for a three—day reunion.
The event opened Thursday with the induction of
juniors James Carmody, Lindsey Duran, Rebecca Johns,
Christopher Sullivan and William Teichman into Omicron
Delta Kappa, a national leadership fraternity.
Over the next two days, the classes of ‘52, ‘57, ‘62,
‘67, ‘72, ‘77, ‘82, ‘87, ‘92 and ‘97 could attend over a dozen
seminars and question—and—answer sessions. Meals on
the front lawn and Greek mixers provided alumni with a
chance to comment on their alma mater’s recent changes.
Due to coeducation’s relatively modem institution in
1985, many alunmi found female students the campus’
most striking change.
“What a magniﬁcent difference,” said Jed Dun ‘82,
an alurrmus from Greensboro, NC.

L’NEARTH1£‘_D 
ON PAGE 3. 

to opus, observe changes

  

.,._

(I)L'KlE.\\'\lr\V\ l.L'.EDL'
REUNION. Alumni hug during the weekend’s festivities.
“Women: I think its wonderful,” agreed Ted Achom
‘72, from Carnphill, PA. “I fully supported the idea.”
A small seminar was later held to discuss alurnnae’s
contributions to the University.

NG-TUM

 . ,., \ V:
..r>.;\.t.,=<.>.. I.

2-5-£5.-(1

 

Alumni were also interested in W&L’s emerging com-
mitment to diversity, partially addressed in Friday’s semi-
nar “Going Global: New World Perspectives at W&L.”

“We come together around learning, leadership, and honor,”
said Dunn, who didn’t believe in “diversity for diversity’s sake.”

‘‘If you can agree to that and to work, all are welcome.”

Some alumni were struck merely by the fact that stu-
dents carne from different regions of the US.

“Certainly it’s good,” said Steve McEllhaney ‘67, who
welcomed the diversification. McEllhaney was once a
“nontraditional” student himself.

“You called [W&L] the University of the South, but I
was from Ohio.”

Downtown Lexington, alumni observed, has been
thoroughly gentrifred.

“There’s a lot more things in Lexington,” said Bill
Lathbury ’62, from Princeton, NJ, who also noticed the
town’s new prosperity. The Willson—Walker House, for
instance, used to be a watering hole called “Snookies.”

JAVAPAIOOZA

I\lo\'rm', ;\'lf'-.3‘ (3, 20172

Across the street was a pool hall called “Liquid Lunch.”
These changes were not unanimously applauded.
“Lexington is much more upscale, but it may have

_ lost a touch of character in the process,” McEllhaney said.

While some things have changed, some traditions—
like heavy drinking—have remained the same. Alumni Week-
end remains the heaviest drinking weekend of the year.

Nearly every year, Director of Security Michael Young said,
alumni are arrested by the Lexington police for “all charges”:
including public drunkenness and driving while intoxicated.

Security provides additional officers to cover alumni events.

“We are mindful that these are important visitors and
we try to take care of them,” Young said. “Most officers
are working special assigmnents for alumni related events.”

Fraternity parties, however, also provided a forum for
former and current students to mingle.

“I think the alumni should mix more with the students,”
Dunn said. “Students are the Spirit of the University.”

—-Peter Quackenbush contributed to this article

Task force formed

Students, faculty discuss presence of drugs on campus

KICK OFF. Poston Brown Project performed for customers at ]avapalooza’s
Habitat for Humanity kick-off in the BDG quad last Monday night. Agents of
Good Roots performed as well. Students and faculty alike gathered in the quad
to enjoy the spring weather, listen to music, visit with friends and sample coffee

l\t.m' GUY/The rig-rrm pr;
and ice cream. Javapalooza will continue on Monday nights throughout the
term. Upcoming bands will include The Derek Trucks Band, Jah Works,
Ringsend, and ]immie’s Chicken Shack. javapalooza meets from 7:30-10:30
each Monday night. The rain location is Doremus Gym.

BY IMRAN NAEEMULLAH AND
MATIHEW MCDERMOTT
ASST. f\7E\‘t’S EDITOR & EDlT()R—IN—CHlEF

Washington and Lee’s Alcohol
Task Force birthed a students—and-
staff subcommittee on illegal drugs.

“[We] discuss drugs
on campus, centering on
felony drugs and ap-
proaching them,” said
sophomore Ansel Sanders,
a task force member.

Dean of Students
David Howison asked
Sanders to join the comrnit—
tee Winter Term.

Other members include
senior Rob Naftel, sopho-
more Jackie Green, fresh-
man Catherine Stroud and
third-year law Sandy

director of University
Health Services.

“We are using the same three-
pronged approach we did for alcohol:
education and prevention, evaluation
and treatment, and discipline.” ,

“There’s been a lot of fact ﬁnd-
ing,” Sanders added, mentioning the
CORE survey and information pro-
vided by Horton and Health Educa-

PRIDE

COURTESY PR1 D E
BE PROUD. Seniorjustin Arnold and Tom Ziegler, theater
professor, received the Anece F. McCloud Excellence in
Diversity Award. The award is  to members of the
I‘ Washington and Lee community who have demonstrated
a personal commitment to promoting diversity awareness,
acceptance, and appreciation through various means and
on various levels of campus life. Each year a member of the
ﬁculty or administration and the student body is recognized
for his or her efforts in  Washington and Lee a more
diversity-conscious and hospitable environment. Anece F.
McCloud was a former W&L Associate Dean of Students,
creator of PRIDE (Promoting Respect for the Individual
through Diversity in Education), and served on the Virginia
Network for Women Leaders

E-mail news briefs to

$5

Gener

Nabors to host Service Day

Nabors Service League will
host its annual Service Day on Sat-
urday, May ll. The day will com-
mence at 10:45 a.m. with brunch in
the BDG Quad, which will run until
noon. Service activities will begin
at noon. Among other things, a car-
nival with be held with the W&L
chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa, an
honor society dedicated to leader-
ship.

In addition, volunteers will work
with animals, children, senior citizens,
paint houses, wash cars, and do yard
work. Sign—up will run until May 10.
Interested participants can either reg-
ister in front of the co—op, or online, at
http://volunteer.wlu. edir/
NSDSignup.html. '

W&L Law advances in rank

Washington and Lee University’s
School of Law is ranked the 18th best
legal program in the nation——rnoving up
from #20 last year, according to new
rankings by U.S. News & World Report.

The new rankings show W&L’s
School of Law———Vrrginia’s only private
one in the Top 50—gaining ground on
the University of Vrrginia’s law school,
which tied with three other schools for
7th place. W&L also tied for #18 with
three other law schools -— those at the
universities of Iowa, Minnesota and

 

Southern California.

“Our advanced standing this year
is signiﬁcant,” said W&L Law School
Dean David F. Partlett. “The indicators
used by U.S. News that bear on the
quality of student life and the quality
of legal education are extremely favor-
able to Washington and Lee. The hard
work of the law school bears fruit in
these rankings and in many other
ways.” ‘

“Our student-law faculty ratio of 1 l-
to-1 is second only to Yale’s,” added
Partlett, who previously headed
Vanderbilt’s law school.

Washington and Lee’s School of
Law also has been named by The Na-
tional Jurist as one of the top three “best
value” legal programs at private univer-
sities in the country.

Art gallery features student

Until the end of May, there will
be a show at the Nelson Gallery on
Washington Street. It will feature
the work of two students, one of
whom is Bentley Knight, a senior
at Washington and Lee. She will be
included in the show along with
another art student Southern Vir-
ginia College.

The show will include works in
several different media and include
portraits, still lifes, and landscapes.
All works displayed at the show will
be available for sale.

 
 

Ho\x'1s<).\'~

tor Jan Kaufman.

“We have no speciﬁc end goal,”
said Howison. “We view this as a work
in progress.”

The drug task force, which meets
every Friday, will report to the Board
of Trustees in May.

“It’s really a progress
report,” said Sanders, rather
than formal suggestions..

The drug task force is
focusing on “felony
drugs,” Sanders said.

“It’s something that
Dean Howison and the rest
of the committee felt
needed to be addressed.”

So far, the committee
has not “found anything
that has really surprised
me,” Howison said.

Howison did not men-

Hooper. tion any specifics on W&L
“We are approaching drug use.

drugs the way we did a1co— “We have discovered

hol,” said Dr. Jane Horton, that drug use in high school

in some parts of the coun-
try has increased dramati-
cally,” Howison said. So drugs are the
logical next step in our efforts as we
move away from alcohol.

“However, we are in the early
stages yet, and much work remains to
be done.”

“We are taking it step by step in
our meetings,” Sanders said.

Virus pillages W&Lcomputers

BY PETER DJALIEV
INTERNET IEZDITOR

A dangerous computer virus swept through
campus beginning last week and caused a great
number of computers to malfunction. Its common
name is Klez and it spreads mostly via e—mail as
small executable programs attached to the mail
messages. According to Morris Trimmer from the
University Computing department, the W&L
GroupWise e—mail system receives about 800 mes-
sages daily infected with the Klez virus.

The ﬁle is found in a number in variants
(W32.Klez.E@mm, W32.Klez.H@mm,
W32.ElKem.3587, and W32.Elkem.4926). It is a
worm, i.e. once it executes itself on the hard
disk of a computer, it starts copying itself con-
stantly in the local ﬁles. It attempts to delete all
anti—virus deﬁnitions ﬁles. In fact, Klez usually
blocks completely Norton Antivirus, the most
popular anti—virus program on campus, and
causes it to stop functioning. Then virus starts
replicating on both the local computer and on
all network drives the local computer is attached
to (H:\, K:\, L:\ drives, etc.). The virus also
searches through all ﬁles for e—mail addresses
and sends an e—mail to the addresses found.
The message usually has a random subject that
contains virus alerts or text urging the user to
open the message. The virus attaches itself to
the message as a small executable ﬁle with a
random ﬁlename.

Besides spreading itself very eﬂiciently, the
virus is quite dangerous. First, it slows down sub-
stantially all running programs because it con-
stantly replicates itself and in this way takes up a
portion of the capacity of the processor. Most
importantly, it attempts to corrupt/destroy certain
types of files or all ﬁles on the local computer on
the sixth or the thirteenth of each odd month (Jan,
March, May. . .). The exact action the virus per-
forms depends on the variant of the virus.

Fighting this virus is difﬁcult because of
the speed with which it spreads around cam-

pus. Despite the enormous number of hours
University Computing support staff have spent
during the last few days on preventing and clean-
ing virus infections from the campus network,
the responsibility of keeping the virus away lies
personally in you. Do not open any suspicious
programs that come attached to e—mail messages.
Users with Microsoft Outlook do not even have
to open the attached program because, due to a
security bug in Microsoft Outlook, the virus ex-
ecutes itself when the user opens the infected
message. You should always keep an anti-virus
program running and update the virus deﬁni-
tions frequently (at least once per week or two).
If your anti—virus program suddenly crashes and
your computer slows down, you should turn it
off and contact the HelpDesk (x4357 or
helpdesk@ wlu.edu) for assistance. Users run-
ning Microsoft Outlook should update the soft-
ware on the site of Microsoft: (http://
www.microsoft.cornltechnetlsecuritylbulletinl
MS01—020.asp)

Unfortunately, some people on campus do
not fully realize the danger they cause by not
taking those simple precautions. Because the
virus also infects W&L’s network and e—mail
servers, the University Computing department
is adopting specific policies to fight the spread-
ing infection. The department uses the network
addresses encoded in the e—mail messages and
tracks down the users spreading the virus. Then
it contacts those users and requests from them
to clean the virus from their computers or to
bring them to the HelpDesk to have them disin-
fected. If a user fails to comply with the request,
he could be disconnected from the campus net-
work and denied service of all network resources
the university is offering (e—mail and storage
space on network drives) until his computer is
disinfected and is no longera threat to the secu-
rity of other users on the network.

If you have any suspicions that your personal
computer can be infected or any questions, feel free
to contact the HelpDesk staff for assistance.

 

 

PAGE 2

White House
must reexamine

War strategies

Bush too muddled in combating
tenonsm, should let mlitary handle the lighting

When I’m playing a game of poker, I try not to let
others see my cards, save I reveal my strategy for win-
ning. President Bush should do the same, as he en-
gages in the War on Terror, as some of his speeches
and actions would cast serious doubt upon the rnis—
sions of the War on Terror—which should be to pro-
tect the national security of the United States of America
and bring members of the al Qaeda network to justice.

In one of his recent speeches, Bush ambigu-
ously referred to a group of countries he called
“the axis of evil.” Is the “axis of evil” simply Iraq,
Iran, and North
COMMON SENSE l(orea, or does it

include moderate
oNArIIAN WoRrHAM‘04 countries such as

Jordan and Egypt?
In every speech concerning this delicate issue,
the President has to make his intentions clear.

Arab television is trying to portray Bush as a
war-hungry crazy man, who is trying to wage war
on Islam. He, thus, should not make speeches that
will appear on Arab television, promising to de-
stroy an ambiguously defined “axis of evil.”

Many Americans are very self—righteous when
they approach the Middle Eastern conﬂicts. But, the
fact is, that public displays of distaste for the United
States are well-founded. This country supports Israel,
an institution, which many countries in the region think
threatens their national security.

When Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon sent
tanks to Palestinian settlements, how would the
average person not think the United States was
involved in some way?

The war on Terrorism is a necessary war. We have
to root out terrorism and destroy terrorist networks.
Osarna bin Laden has to be found, and his al Qaeda
network should be destroyed. And, as Bush said, any
country that harbors or gives refuge to bin Laden and
his terrorist network “should share in their fate.”

But, as we proceed in this campaign, we should
not neglect the diplomatic side. It is General T ommy
Frank’sjob to destroy any “axis of evil.” It is Bush’s
job to smooth the road while Frank’s does this.

Bush should stress the statements he made in his
first speech about the terrorist attacks: “We did not ask
for this war’ ’ and “We will not allow people from without
to destroy our way of life.” Bush should be trying to
inspire the cooperation of Arab nations instead of label-
ing them as an “axis of ev' .”

 
 

UOTE OF THE WEEK:

THE; Rim-'r‘i:tI PH;

PINIONS

  

ANDREWALATIMER ’'

OPINIONSEDITOR
EMAH.-IArrt1ERA@wIiiEDU

MONDAY, MAY 6, 2002

Path totoleration does notpass through Black Studies program

One month ago in the April Fools is-
sue of The Ring-tum Phi, the lead satirical
piece was a story on Al Sharpton’s being
elected the new President of Washington
and Lee University instead of the actual
President-elect, Thomas G Burish.

The intention of the piece was to pro-
voke laughter because Sharpton would be
a horrible choice. It worked
because people under-
stood that Sharpton and
his cronies like Jesse Jack-
son are nothing but frauds,
advancing an agenda that is at best self-
victirnizing and at worst, blatantly racist.

That said, however, not everyone sees
Sharpton as a joke. Indeed, the concept of
civil rights is a noble one and Sharpton pro-
fesses to advance this agenda for the ben-
efit of minorities everywhere, in particular
black people. The sad thing is that Sharpton
goes about his task by perpetuating the false
notion that black people are unable to help
themselves and need a “leg up.”

Witness Sharpton’s support for black
reparations, aﬂirrnative action, and, critically,
his advocacy of black studies programs.

The recent departure of Harvard professor
Comel West for Princeton University because
of his row with Harvard President Larry Sum-
mers overWest’s alleged lack of scholarship best
exempliﬁes the ridiculousness of the version of
civil rights promoted by this crowd: West had
failed to live up to the standards of Harvard,
plain and simple, yet he used the labels 0 “rac-

 

“When McDerrnott

‘talks’about sports.”
-David M. Crowell ‘O4

RIGHT-WING RESPONSE
IMRAN NAEEMULLAH ‘05 “neutrality” to the tradi-

 

“I’m only here to find a

—Katie J. Howell ‘O4

ist” and “anti-diversity? ’ to defend his cause.

With this highly publicized case of bla-
tant stupidity in the field, would it not seem
logical that people would see black stud-
ies programs as a bad idea?

Apparently not among certain fac-
tions. Black Female Alliance chair and
sophomore Marinda Harrell recently wrote
a piece in the Trident call-
ing for a black studies
program at W&L, citing its

tional type of W&L stu-
dent and the fact that the women’s studies
program is well—respected.

She also explains that she wants the pro-
gram not just for her and her friends, but for
everyone. Well, of course. No program of stud-
ies at any university should have the prerequi-
site that one be of a particular race. That said, I
realize that Ms. Harrell does not advocate that
bizarre idea; however, she does fall prey to the
inane thinking of Sharpton and company.

In asserting the need for a black stud-
ies program, she says, “The days of only
teaching European and white male history
should be buried away.” W&L already got
the message, offering courses like “The Rise
of Modern Japan,” “History of Southern
Africa from the 17th Century,” “The Indian
Subcontinent,” and “Imperial China.”

Ms. Harrell states that the purpose of the
Black Studies program is to “introduce students
to the history, culture, and society, and political
and economic conditions of Black people in


Cir.»

husband.”

  

“The night time is the
right time.”
—Catherine C. Guy ‘04

Africa, the Americas, and elsewhere in the
world.” She refers to “the Black experience.” In
a way, she is right. After all, to use the example
of slavery creating separate communities, white
people were not slaves in this country.

However, slavery is a part of American his-
tory as a whole, and is already addressed in the
context of US history courses all the way down
to the elementary school level. Moreover, W&L
offers specialized courses on slavery and the
Civil War, as well as the Civil Rights movement.

Combine this with courses on African his-
tory (which is obviously legitimate), and what
more could the black studies program want? It
seems that the only thing lacking is a major,
and perhaps an introductory level course to
explain the need for a formal label, “Introduc-
tion to Black History (Since We Want It To Be
So Different From Regular History)”

Perhaps what Ms. Harrell (and her
friends) should realize is that instead of cru-
sading for a black studies program, they should
sit back and look at themselves. If tl1ey’re so
interested in courses that are pertinent to the
world around us, why aren’t they enrolled ir1
History 195A: Himalayan Hatreds?

That course, which I am in, explores the
simmering conﬂict between India and Pakistan,
two nuclear powers that have fought three wars
in 50 years, and came close to another one last
year. I recall that the minority population at this
school is approximately 12 percent, but with all
due respect, why is almost everyone in the class
from Texas? Surely, such an important issue-
far more pertinent to the world populace at large

“The ulcers.”
-Andrew Latimer ‘O5

 

than a course on “the Black experience” (I’m
still not really sure what this means)—deserves
much attention.

Fmally,andIknowthisisreallyaminor
point, but why can’t Ms. Harrell learn how to
spellmynameproperiy?Iknowthatshe’s trying
to paint me as a comedian (really, I’m not), but
still,Idon’tneedthe stage name “Nameullah.”I
likeNaeemullah just ﬁne, thankyou.

Moreover, Naeemullah is an ethnic Paki-
staninamewithArabroots. I seemtorernember
a certain black sophomore who got very of-
fended when I mispronounced her ethnic name
at the diversity panel; if she can get mad, then
socanI.Forthatmatter,Imayaswellgetmadat
everyone who refers to people of my faith as
“Islams” or “Islarnics.”

To counter this misconception, which
probably points to a broader misunderstand-
ing and lack of knowledge about the Mus-
lim faith, I could even call for ar1Arab Stud-
ies program, a Southeast Asian Studies pro-
gram, a Muslim Studies program, and per-
haps even a Spelling Studies program.

Yet, I don’t. It seems that the only people
still clamoring for a specialized program where
there is no need for one are the people who
are afraid to step out of the victirnist ideol-
ogy trap and into the real world of a shared,
common history that does not need labels.

Speaking of being in tune with the times,
Ms. Harrell might ﬁnd it wise to identify the
issues that really matter, instead of pursuing a
specious program of studies that in the end,
will benefit no one, least of all black people.

 

 

“I do it for the little

people.”
-Matthew B. McDermot1 ‘04

“THAr’s MALE PORNOGRA—
PHY WITH DREW IN IT!”

“Miss GUY, I DO NOT NEED TO KNOW
ABOUT YOUR PERSONAL LIFE.”

— ANONYMOUS W&LIFE EDITOR
BEING VICIOUSLY REBUKED BY ANONY-
MOUS EDlTOR—IN-CHIEF.

Editor-in-chief
Associate Editor
Asst. News Editor
Opinions Editor
Editor-in-exile
W&Life Editor

Sports Editor

Photo Editor
Photographer
Business Manager
Circulation Manager
Asst. Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Internet Editor

Mattl1ewB.McDermott
Katie J. Howell
Imran Naeemullah
Andrew A. Latimer
Brett T. Kirwan
Catherine C. Guy
David M. Crowell
Mary E. Guy

J eb Brooks

Paul A. Seifert
Brian Castleberry
Emily Barker
William Litton
Peter L. Djalaliev

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but
The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox
by 5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s
edition. The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit sub-
missions for content and length. Letters and columns do
not necessarily reﬂect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Wrginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

Annual Subscription Rate: $30



Spring Term resolutions

Spring Term allows tradition to smoothly slide
away, lubricated by readily available alcohol. New
resolutions are made, and Phi staffers have gra-

ciously consented to share theirs.

One of our Amazonian lady-editors (who,
frankly, towers over her Lilliputian counterparts like
a telephone pole in a daisy patch) recently bemoaned
the fact that tall women can’t date shrirnpy men.

Really, there’s no shortage of reasons why

FOR RENT

3-bedroom furnished apartment,
off—street parking, 5 minutes on
foot from Washington Hall.
$600/month; utilities not included.
One-year lease.
Please call 463-7044 after 5 pm.

American Red Cross Class
Community First Aid and Safety
Infant;/Child Adult CPR

Doremus Gymnasium 500-level classroom

6 to 10 PM each evening
For more infomation contact:

Standard r-rrst Aid "
May 9 and 16
Red Cross Ofﬁce

Waynesboro, VA
540/943-4511

puny obstacles like height and relative shoulder-
width should not interfere in affairs of love.This
editor, however, has decided against shin-sanding
and other unpleasant cosmetic surgeries.

Her Spring Term resolution is to start looking
up, or, rather, down, at the many suitable (if verti-
cally-challenged) prospects available.

A younger editor previously abhorred making
trips to the Co-operational Facility of Glory. Why
should he walk one mile to bring other people, al-
beit his elders and betters, confectionaries and sug-
ared drinks? However, realizing that his promotional
chances depend on unquestioning menial labor, his
Spring Term resolution is not to complain audibly.

His predecessor, a vulture capitalist, reguarly
croaked out the advantages of sweatshops and im-
perialism. The Phi’s editorial board ultimatedly de-
cided to enroll this man into sensitivity training. Af-
ter several f1fteen—hour days with a dedicated, hands-
on deprograrnrner, this former social parasite has rec-
ognized the error of his running-dog ways.

His Spring Term resolution is to spend Fall
Term in China, enjoying the simple pleasures of a
worker’s paradise, imbibing the great teachings
of Chairman Mao and accepting the inevitable
establishment of a Marxist-Leninist utopia.

Another spry young editor recently returned
from a long walk on the beach and decided that it
was time to put down roots. Long known as the
Lothario of the road-cheese schools, our
Cassanova’s spring term resolution is to only date
W&L girls. Concentrate the wealth, baby!

One of our most powerful editors, a South-
erner (if there were any doubt), disapproves of
the anti-sharecropping movement that has recently
percolated down to 215‘ century Mississippi. Along
with air conditioning and women’s suffrage, she
feels this development threatens the cultural foun-
dations of a once-great state.

Her Spring Term resolutionisto reestablish W&L’ s
deftmct Sharecropping Anti-Defamation League.

Let’s all make a difference, shall we?

R'\\‘

   
   
  

Open Seven Days A Week 0 11am - 10pm
Visa 0 l\iasterCard 0 Discover 0 American Express

  4

Take Out or Eat In
Free Delivery to Lexington Area

540-463-3330
E. Nelson Street, Lexington
Every Sunday Lunch Buffet! From 11A.M. - 2:30 RM.

 
   

Great Student Rental for rent Undergrads or Law Students.

Available 2002-2003

Two stories, two apartments, up to six people. Ping Pong Room
and TV Room. Large yard and very private.

4 people: $300 per person, 5 people: $225, 6 people: $200.

Call 463-7168 or evenings 348-6908

QIt0Q00I0009COOO00Q0COGOOOOOOQOQIOOOIOOIOOOOOQODQIOOQO!Q00

OOOUOOOOOC0000OCOOOOJOOOOOOOOCOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO

I

 

 

  

 C. GUY
W&LlPEEDl’lOR
Emu; GtYc@wLL.rnt

lfloNDAY, MAY 6, 2002

W&LlFE

Cadavers amp up activity on campus

BY HILARY HENRY
STAFF WRITER

A Students and faculty alike are
amazed by the numerous Cadaver ban-
ners and spray painted skulls all over
campus this year. The Cadaver Society
is a secret group that no one around cam-
pus knows much about, except its mem-
bers, who don’t talk about their group’s
mission or identity. Everyone does know
that this year, the group’s symbol, a skull
«inside the letter “c”, has appeared ev-
erywhere — from sorority house columns
to the construction site at Reid Hall. “We
have increased our activity recently —
solely for the purpose of letting the cam-
pus know that there is a Cadaver Soci-
ety. .. all we want for people to know is
that it is a friend of the university,” said
one Cadaver who asked not to be identi-
/ﬁed in order to protect the anonymity of
the secret society.

The increased activity this year
“comes from the frustration with Build-
ings and Grounds for not allowing our
signs to stay up past 8 a.m.,” said the
Cadaver, who explained that the Cadav-
ers are annoyed when their posters are
cleaned up before moming classes.

The Cadaver said that the whole se-
cret society would like to see, “the signs
stay up for half a day. . . the banners stay
up for half a day.” Security Director Mike
érung estimates that this year the Ca-

vers’ have caused “a couple thousand

dollars of damage. . . stupid damage.”
This is a dramatic increase from the usual
damage, which he estimates runs in the
hundreds of dollars per year to repair.

Physical Plant Director Scott Beebe
agreed with Young’s damage assess-
ments without commenting on the exact
cost of the repairs. Beebe says he’s “not
happy at all with [this year’s activity]...
someone has to clean it up and that’s my
department.”

Beebe hates to see permanent dam-
age to the campus, like when white wash-
able paint is used on the historic red build-
ings of the Colonnade. He expressed
hope that the Cadavers would ﬁnd bet-
ter ways to express themselves than,
“defacing buildings and putting my em-
ployees at pe ' 

“We took measures to correct. . . the
damage at the sorority houses,” the Ca-
daver said without going irrto the specif-
ics of how they helped. But he ackr1owl—
edged that tracking mud through the so
rority house was, “a bad idea — but an
accident.”

Young has been at Washington and
Lee for eleven years and he calls this
year’s “maneuvers”, “more aggressive”
than any other year he’s witnessed. He
said that he was especially unhappy with
the attacks on the sorority houses and
the Reid Hall construction site.

The Cadaver apologized for the ac-
cident of tracking mud through the so-
rority houses and using black window

chalk on the white columns. The Cadaver
also told me that the window chalk was,
“not intended to be permanent.”

“Its not going to beneﬁt them, not
going to benefit their cause and will
cause grief for others,” Young said of
their more destructive attacks earlier this
year. Movement within residence halls,
construction sites or the sorority houses
is not acceptable, Young declared.

When asked if he planned to go
after them, Young said no, explaining
however that he has ways of contacting
the secret society. He says that while
Campus Security will not go after the
black—robed Cadavers, VMI security and
the Lexington Police have less tolerance
for the vandals and their loud late—night
romping through town. The Cadavers
never try to deface VlVlI property, but
VMI security won’t tolerate the noisy
bunch if they wander over next door. He
also warns the Cadavers that he isn’t
going to protect them from the police if
they continue their rowdiness.

“We’re working on trying to chan-
nel [this year’s insurgence of creativity]
in the right way,” the Cadaver said, “We
give tens of thousands of dollars every
year to the university. We want to bring
awareness to the fact that there is a Ca-
daver Society out there and we have the
ur1iversity’s best interest in mind.”

Young has another concern with re-
gards to the Cadavers: safety. He says
he will have them charged for trespass-

I

F.

In the April 29 issue: Traveller is a Safe Rid
nights a week and until 2 AM the other
developed based on one of the founding princ'
responsibility for their actions. If you choose to
that is why Traveller is here: to empower eve’

The front page article “Music industry seeks Intern

 
   
     

 

Naeemullah.

ber Ride Program, and runs until 4 AM three
quote should have been ‘Traveller was
that is that every student should take personal
uld always choose to get a safe ride home! And
 0 take a safe ride home, 7 nights per week.”

ernates” was written by Peter Djalaliev, not Imran

as that are air. .
ii tire ttrae-a.tr':;»es far téise 5

ing if he catches them within the con-
struction site again. He doesn’t think
this will be a problem because in his ex-
perience, once the group has been
warned to avoid an area, it does. How-
ever, he is worried that they could get
hurt running around the dark campus
with the limited vision provided by their
masks.

The Cadaver, when asked about
safety, responded, “We’re a pretty agile
group. . . there is no drinking involved. . .
we’re not trying to be a daring group —
wekeepourownbestinterestisinmind.”

Dean Howison, who has been at
Washington and Lee for twelve years,
has had a similar response from the
group. He said that a few years ago, the
Colonnade colurrms were covered in Ca-
daver signs. He asked the president of
the student body to tell the Cadavers
not to post signs on the Colonnade
again, and to Howison’s knowledge,
they haven’t.

Despite the yearly damages, many
W&L students, faculty and alumni still
support the secret society. Dean
Howison, like many others with Cadaver
run-ins, describes his interactions with
them as “absolutely amusing.”

While many faculty members con-
cede that their presence on campus is
“an annoyance,” as John Gurm, a mem-
ber of the faculty emeriti, said, they are
an accepted tradition on campus that
no one wants to see end.

 i\&.4iN!.A,. ' ‘l§’§?...E9E!3§§iF§’E=’  *-
?°!t%i;!€i‘.§§«’*'<‘ (i.1“M’5?’i._§ ‘*(’°E‘3%-(it is §‘~"’l‘~1’!lI’.'1”s£'-V

A few faculty are alarmed by
the spray paint, hoping that this year’s
destructive activities are a one-time oc-
currence and not a trend. “Its one thing
to spread paper around... but spray
cans are a bit of a menace,” said Profes-
sor Holt Merchant of the History De-
partrnent.

The consensus seems to be that
the Cadavers add a sense of mystery
and tradition to our campus. According
to Mame Warren’s book, Come Cheer,
The Cadaver Society is, “a social club
dedicated to providing anonymous fi-
nancial assistance to W&L” and formed
in 1957.

John Gurm, who arrived on faculty
in the same year that the Cadaver’s re-

 

PAGE 3

MXRY GuY/ THE Rmc-1

portedly were formed, says that the Ca-
davers are, “less conspicuous now than
it used to be” as he recalled the extreme
secrecy with which they originally oper-
ated under. They are still secret today,
but a little more visible. Myths abound,
with wide-ranging claims about the
Cadaver’s mission, make-up and history.
Some people think that they are merely a
drinking society and others attribute to
them huge donations to the school. No
one wants them to leave, but some want
them to clean up their act. Dean Howison
summed up the feeling of many around
campus, when he said that he wanted
them to continue with, “creative but non-
destructive ways” of spreading their pres-
ence.

~l‘}§.#5ils’§?3.}§§E§.L5{’Y: l§¢f;.3¥MZl%
82A <- hiilﬁifi

swarm“ t¥;t$§.¥f:%’é{3‘?£’ﬁ£‘«t  -» raxzaeere-a’ « aim

 

cann le

Friday, May 17, 7:30 pm.

 
  
   

Doe 'ts’o11i _
‘Sunday,,May 26, '7 :30 pm.

Tix & Information
Www.theaterat1imekiln.com
or call 540-463-3074

- .

T L . as-..'..

 
 
    

 

 
      

._ cxington. Virginia
~ Where entertainment comes naturally

  Kath cane} at
The Clinch Mt. Boys
Sunday, May 19, 7:30 pm.

    Janis Ian
Sunday, June 2, 7:30 pm.

,>}‘\\>’

  
   
     

 

 

 

Tara Ra:;o~rttAi Phi

MONDAY, MAY 6, 2002

Generals

MAR\' GU\'/ T/Je Ring-11/211 P/Ii
SENIOR DAY: Senior John Moore attempts to wheel around
his opponent in the Generals’ 13-5 victory over Division II
Limestone on Saturday Moore scored two goals in the victory.

eave Saints without a prayer; Widener up next,

 

DAWD M Crtottﬁr
SPORISEDHOR
ExiA1i;otoorA1iD@vrrnroU

BY DAVID CROWELL
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s lacrosse team used an
eight-goal spurt over the span of three periods in order to
build a 12-4 lead and coast to a 13-5 victory over Division
H Limestone on Saturday afternoon.

The game was the regular season ﬁnale for W&L and
also the ﬁnal career regular season game for eight seniors,
who received pregame recognition.

The Generals (12-3), ranked fourth in the latest Divi-
sion III poll, thoroughly dominated the Saints in the first
period, racking up four goals by utilizing precise passing
and winning key ground balls.

Senior John Moore opened the scoring at the 13:57
mark, tallying an unassisted goal. Senior co—captain An-
drew Barnett followed a little over a minute later with his
own score after receiving a great interior feed from fresh-
man Gavin Molinelli.

Sophomore Matt Fink rounded out the run, picking up
a ground ball in front of the net and easily putting it past
Limestone’s Matt Malloy to take a 4-0 lead.

To coach Mike Cerino, who led Limestone to a Divi-
sion H national title in 2000, the offensive outburst was no

Hagerman earns South Regional honors

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Washington and Lee freshman Lindsay Hagerman
added to her season accolades by being named the Atlan-
tic South Region Rookie of the Year by the Intercollegiate
Tennis Association (ITA) earlier this week.

Hagerman, currently the 14”’ ranked singles player in
Division III, already earned All-ODAC honors at No. 1
singles after posting a 20-4 record and similar recognition
at No. 2 doubles, where she played with either Manning
Willard or Sallie Gray Strang, both seniors, and accumu-
lated a combined 19-3 record.

Hagerman is the ﬁrst General to earn Atlantic South
Region Rookie of the Year since 1998, when teammate
Melissa Hatley earned the award.

As one of four regional winners, Hagerman moves to
the national ballot, where she will be considered for NCAA
Division IH National Rookie of the Year honors.

Generals place 5 on all-conference squads

The Washington and Lee women’s lacrosse team placed
ﬁve players on the All-Old Dominion Athletic Conference
(ODAC) team this Thursday, with four players earning
First Team recognition.

Senior defenders Eloise Priest and Julie Carskadon and
junior defender Sarah Janowitz all earned First Team All-
ODAC honors after forming the nucleus of a defense that
allowed less than eight goals per game.

Priest, a preseason First Team All-American, picked up
35 ground balls and caused a team-high 41 turnovers.
This was her third straight selection to the first team.

Carskadon earned her ﬁrst all-conference nod after tal-
lying 13 goals and four assists and leading the Generals
with 73 ground balls.

J anowitz followed up a Second Team All-ODAC selec-
tion last season by amassing 48 ground balls and causing
38 turnovers.

Junior attacker Leslie Bogart also earned First Team
All-ODAC accolades after being a second team pick as a
freshman. Bogart led the Generals in scoring with 58
points and also broke the single-season record for as-

sists with 42.

Sophomore attacker Kelly Taﬁfe rounded out the honorees
by garnering Second Team All-ODAC honors. Taffe led the
Generals with 38 goals and amassed 48 points on the season.

Randolph-Macon senior midfielder Erin Riedy earned
ODAC Player of the Year honors.

Cerino named top conference coach

Coach Mike Cerino led a list of Washington and Lee
honorees when the Old Dominion Athletic Conference
named its postseason all-conference teams and additional
awards on Thursday afternoon.

Cerino, in his first season at W&L, earned ODAC Coach
of the Year honors after leading the Generals to an 12-3
regular season record, the ODAC Tournament Champion-
ship and an NCAA Division III Tournament berth.

In addition, six Generals earned all-conference acco-
lades, led by senior attacker Andrew Barnett, junior
defenseman Matt Conners and senior defenseman Eric
Kontargyris, who all earned First Team All-ODAC honors.-

Barnett, a preseason Honorable Mention All-Ameri-
can, earned honorable mention honors last season. He
ﬁnished second on the squad in scoring in 2002, picking
up 40 points on 29 goals and 11 assists.

Conners and Kontargyris anchored a W&L defense
that allowed a Division HI-leading 5.47 goals per game.
Conners, a preseason Third Team All-America pick, earned
his ﬁrst all-conference selection.

Kontargyris was named to the second team last sea-
son and also earned Honorable Mention All—America ac-
colades in 2001.

Sophomore goalie Ansel Sanders, in his ﬁrst year as a
starter, and junior midfielder Tom Melanson earned Sec-
ond Team All-ODAC honors, while sophomore Matt Fink
was named to the honorable mention team.

Sanders posted a .617 save percentage and ranks sec-
ond in Division III in goals-against—average (5.62).

Melanson won 64 per cent of his faceoffs, tallied nine
points, and led W&L with 102 ground balls. He is a pre-

season First Team All-America selection.

Fink led the Generals in scoring with 47 points on 35
goals and 12 assists in his first season as a starter.

 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

  

 
 

surprise.
“We’ve been playing that way down the stretch of the
season and I feel like we kept that momentum,” he said.
The Generals displayed a few bad tendencies over the next
12 minutes, showing some sloppy passing and a failure to
capitalize on offensive opportunities. The Saints, the No. 3
team in Division 11, used these lapses to even the score at four.
“I think we got a bit too comfortable with the lead,
which is something we tend to do,” Cerino said. “That’s
the sign of a young team. Although we have some se-
niors, we still have a lot of sophomores in the offense and
it showed a little bit. We lost our concentration level.”
The Generals rediscovered its concentration with
some prodding from the coaching staff and closed the
first half with three scores by Moore and sophomores
Dustin Martin and Mike McNamara to take a 7-4 lead.
On Moore’s score, he easily oulmaneuvered his defender
in order to tally his second goal of the day. For the four-year
veteran, everything is coming in to place at the right time.
“I feel very conﬁdent with where we’re at,” Moore said.
“I think my game has gotten better throughout the season
and I think our offense is clicking right now. We’re fired
up to play some great tournament games.”
The Generals came out strong in the second half, scor-

BY IAN R. MCILROY
SPORTS WRITER

On Saturday, the Washington
and Lee women’s lacrosse team
ended their season with a hard-
fought 12-5 loss to Longwood Col-
lege at the Liberty Hall Fields.

Discounting a stretch of six
straight goals for Longwood mid-
way through the first period, the
Generals held their own against the
top-ranked team in NCAA Division
II.

With scores from sophomore at-
tacker Stephanie Haldy and senior
midﬁelder Emily Owens, the Gener-
als jumped out to an early 2-0 lead.

Longwood, however, quickly
rallied to a 3-3-tie midway through
the half. The undefeated Lancers
then proceeded to roll off six
straight goals to take a 9-3 lead late
in the first half.

Scoring just before the break, the
Generals trailed by merely ﬁve goals
at halftime. Unfortunately for the
Generals, Longwood added three
more goals early in the second half
to cement the victory.

Despite coming off a narrow
overtime loss in the ODAC final the
previous week, the Generals fought

goal.

saves.

ing for the Generals by posting one

In net for the Generals, sophomore
goalie Joanna Perini recorded 12

PAGE "4

ing the only two goals of the third period, and limiting the
Saints to one goal over 30 minutes of play. W&L cruised in
the fourth period, with Fink scoring two of his three goals.

Sophomore Ansel Sanders frustrated Limestone’s at,-
tack all day, making 13 saves in goal, and drawing praise
from his head coach.

“Ansel played outstanding and it’s key that he’s played
solid back—to-back games today and against Hampden-
Sydney (on April 27),” Cerino said. “A hot goalie, and"%
goalie with a lot of poise, is very important in the tourna-
merit.”

Cerino and the Generals, the third seed in the South
Region, must now focus on said NCAAToumament. W&L
opens up with a game against Widener on Wednesday.
The time and site will be announced. :.

In a grueling tournament, where experience often mat-
ters, the young Generals would seem to be at a disadvan-
tage. Moore, however, shrugs off that assessment. "

“(The seniors) have been in a lot of big games the
younger guys haven’t, but I think our sophomores are
more mature than most sophomores in the league,” Moore
said. “I don’t think they’re going to crack under pressure].
Under our experience and leadership, I think they’ll do
great.”

W&L ﬁnishes with hard-fut loss

M ho’ (iL'\’/T/79 Ring-tum Phi

PUTIIN’ ON THE BRAKES: Sophomore attacker Kelly Taffe tries to elude a defender
during the Generals’ 12-5 defeat to Division II Longwood on Saturday afternoon.
Taffe led W&L by netting a goal and an assist against the Lancers.

gible qualities which will be sorely
missed next year.”

Ending its season with an 11-5
overall record, the Generals ape al-
ready looking forward to incrgased

hard all day long.

“I’m very proud of the team’s
performance today,” said coach Jan
Hathom. “Their play was excellent,
aggressive, and constant.”

In addition to the early scores
from Haldy and Owens, W&L
sophomore midﬁelders Kelly Taffe
and Lee Wheeler each netted a goal
and an assist. Freshman Natalya

Hoobchaak rounded out the scor-

For Owens and other W&L se-
niors Julie Carskadon, Courtenay
Fisher, and Eloise Priest, Saturday
marked the end of their long and bril-
liant college careers.

“Each of our seniors played well
this afternoon and have been strong
leaders throughout the season”
Hathom commented. “Besides their
obvious on-the-ﬁeld contributions,
our seniors possess a lot of intan-

success next spring.

“This team has a good, talented
group of players, but we have often
struggled to put our best play on the
field,” Hathom said. “Yet, we have
learned from these struggles, and are
very excited about next year.”

With 21 returning players and sev-
eral promising freshmen, the W&L
women’s lacrosse team has a bright
future. A

W&L ends season in saw otests 0

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee baseball team began the
weekend with a pair of games against the Savannah Col-
lege of Art and Design at Smith Field and managed a split.

SCAD began with a single run in the top of the first
inning, but junior first baseman Brian Gladysz and sopho-
more catcher Bryan Mulhem each recorded RBI to give
the Generals the lead at the end of the first.

Mulhem brought in another runner in the third and
Gladysz and sophomore left ﬁelder Dan Kagey brought in
two more, to push the Generals’ lead to 5-1 in the ﬁfth inning.

SCAD cut the Generals’ lead to 5-3 in the top of the
sixth, but W&L responded with a single run in the bot-
tom half. The Bees brought in runners in the seventh and
eighth innings to cut the W&L lead to 6-5, but senior
third baseman Matt Kozora doubled in an insurance run
in the bottom of the eighth.

The Bees responded with a ﬁnal run, but could not over-
come a 7-6 deﬁcit.

Sophomore pitcher Peter Dean earned the victory to
move his record to 6-3. He pitched 7 1/3 innings, allowing
ﬁve runs. Junior Michael Hanson pitched the last 1 2/3
innings to pick up his third save of the season.

Unfortunately, SCAD returned the next afternoon with
vengeance on their minds, and they exacted their pound
of ﬂesh, scoring four runs in the ninth inning to change a
close 4-3 game into an 8-3 victory.

With the score deadlocked at two through ﬁve in-
nings, the Bees scored an unearned run in the top of the
sixth. The Generals responded in the bottom half as fresh-
man pinch hitter Matt Marino hit a sacriﬁce ﬂy to tie the
score again.

The Bees responded with an unanswered run in the
seventh, and then cemented the victory with four more in
the ninth.

r

   

.\lAk\' (1L'\'/ The Rzrrg-rum Pb:
SIDEARM SLING: Sophomore Austin Allain tosses from the
edge of the inﬁeld in W&L’s 8-3 loss to SCAD on Saturdﬁy
afternoon. The Generals finished with a record of 18-15-1.

Kagey pitched 8 1/3 innings, but took the loss. Hanson,
Mulhem, and Kozora paced the Generals offensively with
two hits apiece. )f

W&L ﬁnished their season with a 10-8 defeat at the
hands of Mary Washington on Sunday afternoon. "5

The Generals took a 3-2 lead after junior Bobby Littlehale
doubled home two runs. A three-run homer by senior Todd
Gosselink highlighted W&L’s four-run sixth inning tlfat
led to a 7-5 lead, but the Eagles posted five runs in the ﬁnal
three innings to ensure victory.

Littlehale led the Generals by going 3-for-6 with three
RBI. Gosselink also had three RBI and scored two runs,»

 

