  

(3 378,755
(9552.
I/-105
,~, no, If
C» 7»

Commons update:

it

BY KATIE HowEu
EDITOR IN CHIEF

dent Thomas Burish said last week.

“We are considering a beer and wine bar in the Com-
I‘. mons,” Burish said. “Right now we are exploring a number
of things that the University can do.”

Burish suggested serving alcohol in the Commons
for several reasons. He said such a setting would promote
interaction between law school students and 21-year-old

4 undergraduates. He also said serving alcohol on campus
would “encourage respon-
sible drinking and would be
consistent
University’s policies on al-
cohol.”

Before administrators
make a final decision
whether to include a stu-
dent bar or restaurant serv-
ing alcohol, the University
is gathering student, fac-
ulty and alumni input as - ~
well as feedback from other
colleges and universities
that serve alcohol in their
student centers.

“At this point, the general feelings we are getting

‘X (from faculty, students and other universities)»is that serv-
ing alcohol on campus is a possibility and doesn’t appear
to be a big deal,” Dean of Students David Howison said.

Howison and Burish both said they have gotten positive
feedback from most individuals approached about the idea.

“The students are overridingly in favor of the idea,”

 

(DURlIE’\lV\lVWDB3l:Nl*lANl\VO()ll’A(}(.(I).Ul(
ON TAP. Beer may be sold in
the new Commons.

Burish said.

ulty, staff, board and alumni opinion.

BY MEGAN MORGAN
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

On Jan. 31, the Virginia State As-
sembly unanimously passed a bill that,
if enacted, will allow universities more
discretion in determining appropriate
punishments for individuals found
guilty ofhazing. Under current state law,
any student found guilty of hazing must
I be expelled from their respective uni-
versity. Many university officials, how-
ever, complain that since hazing can
range from pinching to serious bodily
harm, it is unfair for these students to
receive the same punishment. If the new
hazing bill becomes law, universities will
have much more leeway in determining
appropriate punishments for students
' 1 found guilty of hazing by applying a

 

    
       
   

     

Beer may  

Beer and wine may be served in the new student Com-
mons alongside coffee, books and school supplies, Presi-

Before a ﬁnal decision is made, Burish said the Uni-
versity must look at the liability issues, licensing and fac-

“Some people have said that serving alcohol in the

Commons is inconsistent with the school’s current mes-
sage that there’ is ‘too much" drinking at‘W&L’,” Burish

IFC unsure about hazing law

  WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

T HE IN G'TUM

with the

BER AND nooks. Construction crews Continue work on the John W. Elrod Commons. The

said. “These people think that to offer alcohol on campus

wide range of sanctions instead of man-
datory expulsion.

The new bill also redeﬁnes haz-
ing, offering a detailed deﬁnition

which is missing from current state ‘

law. Currently, a student must suffer
bodily harm as a result of hazing in
order to press charges or sue. In the
new bill, the deﬁnition of hazing is
widened to include not only bodily
harm but also purposeful endanger-
ment of a person’s safety.

It is hoped that the new bill will
assist in ending underreporting of
hazing cases and assist universities
in prosecuting cases brought before
them. Because hazing is poorly de-
ﬁned and the punishment for those
found guilty of it is so severe, stu-
dents may be reluctant to press

will be promoting drinking.”
Howison and Burish said, however, that few people school,” Howison said. “They all said little alcohol was
have expressed this sentiment. ‘

charges. By offering a more precise
deﬁnition of hazing and a wider vari-
ety of possible punishments, it is
hoped that students will be less re-
luctant to press charges.

It is unclear how this bill will af-
fect the Washington and Lee commu-
nity. Christopher Pickens, Washing-
ton and Lee’s Interfratemity Council
President, thinks that the greater ﬂex-
ibility the bill gives to the school is “a
good thing, although I hope that it
does not encourage schools to be
more tolerant on hazing.”

The bill now goes to a Senate
subcommittee, which has its own ver-
sion of the hazing bill. In order for the
bill to become law, the two houses will
have to agree upon a single version
of it. '

, Shuttle explosion saddens campus

I
if
it
.. .. .NmG_Ov
MOURNING. Columbia glided toward Edwards Air Force
‘ Base during its first mission in 1981.

BY CAIEY ANDERsoN
AssIsTANT NEWS EDITOR

It On the morning of Feb. 1, the 22-year-old Space
Shuttle Columbia exploded approximately 200,000 feet
above the Earth’s surface. All seven members of its crew,
including Ilan Ramon, the first citizen of Israel to ﬂy in
space, were lost. While details are only speculative at this

I’ point, NASA oﬁicials believe that the “number one likely
cause” of the accident was a piece of wing insulation that
fell off the shuttle at takeoff. The failure of any part of the
shuttle’s insulation/heat shield structure would likely lead

X to such a catastrophe, as temperatures caused by high-

    

speed friction with the planet’s atmosphere on re—entry can
reach 3,000 degrees Fahrenheit.

The Washington and Lee community, in step with
the rest of the nation, has reacted with remorse and re-
gret to this tragedy. “It’s just so sad,” said one W&L
sophomore who wishes to remain anonymous. “It only
makes it worse that it was the ﬁrst Israeli in space.”

Other students had similar sentiments. “I was skiing
and I found out when I got back to the van,” said senior
Richard Kilby, who has some friends and acquaintances
among the Texas NASA family. “It made me think about
some of the people down there and how close they are.”

Faculty reacted as well. “I think it’s a very sad
thing,” said history professor Ted DeLaney. One al-
most universal sentiment was the desire to see the
space program press forward despite the setback. “I
don’t want to see the space program halted at all,”
said DeLaney. Kilby expressed a similar sentiment,
noting “America is a country that keeps going on.”

This sentiment is markedly different from American
popular sentiment following the Challenger space shuttle
explosion in 1986. Following that tragedy, American sup-
port for the space program fell sharply into apathy.» The
Columbia explosion has, by contrast, led many citizens
to a more fervent support of NASA.

“These things are horrible, but it makes you realize
that space travel is deﬁnitely not like going down in your
car to pick up lunch,” said Kilby. Washington and Lee,
and the rest of the nation, mourns the loss of the seven
lost crew members, but applauds their courage and hero-
ism.

“Other schools have said that serving beer has not
caused a problem, nor has it changed the culture of the

sold in each setting.”

Publications win big in EC fundinggame

BY CALEY ANDERSON
AssIsTANT NEWS EDITOR

The Executive Committee of the Student Body
has allocated over $17,000 in secondary Winter Term
funding to 20 organizations. The Jan. 29 Budget Hear-
ings were marked by,the presence of several new
organizations as well as several breaks from prece-
dent.

In Athletics, the new club sport of boxing received
$500 in startup funds. Ultimate Frisbee, which was re-
started during Fall term and took in $300 from the EC
then, received $400 in additional ﬁinds this term. Newly
re—founded Club Fencing took in the most of any athletic

‘ organization at $800. They had received $675 in Fall term
funding.

New organizations receiving funding included
the Knitting Society ($100), Project HOPE ($250),
the Spanish House ($100), and the W&L Turkish
Generals ($120). However, the most notable parts
ofthe hearing came from previously-standing orga-

' nizations.

The College Republicans, one of the largest or-

ganizations on-campus, had applied for EC funding

in the Fall, but was turned down due to its politically ‘ 7

partisan nature. Seeking to evade partisanship, this
term both the College Republicans and the Young
Democrats applied jointly for EC funding. The Ex-
ecutive Committee decided to allocate no money to
thejoint applicants, however, and a hearing is sched-
uled which will discuss the rules of EC funding. The
EC also hinted that the lack of funding to the uniﬁed
political organizations may not solely have been due
to partisanship, but rather a lack of funds, and that
the Democrats and Republicans would probably have
better luck in Fall term ofthe next school year.

The Trident, the campus’ formerly independent
student newspaper, received EC funding for the
first time in its history. The Trident had previ-
ously applied for funding during Fall term, but was
turned down by the EC. This term, however, the
EC saw fit to allocate $3,240 to the financially be-
leaguered Trident.

The International House, which has moved from
its old facility, also requested funding for the ﬁrst
time, citing a need for any aid the EC could manage.
The EC complied with a small funding package of
$100.

 .W-VoLUIII~: CV, N0.XIX
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2005

  

JEN Bllt XJIG /' 7beRi71g—/1mIPbz'

a beer and wine bar. The GHQ served beer and wine during the 1980s (inset). All legal students
Commons will house dining facilities, study rooms, meeting rooms, a movie theatre and possibly couldbuyalcoholthere until Virginia law changedthe drinking age and the barbecame a r%urant

Housing a bar in the new Commons will not be the
ﬁrst time alcohol has been served on campus.

 BEER, PAGE 3

 

iIz—tImPb

lNFOGRr\l’l ilC BY

 
 

   

stairs I}, §,i%:."‘rR‘i~a  =-.:r.-r.

W.9§EP»3?f(.§ir#.,$n‘Ez rm. 2..

 2 E’-’    

  

C01 IIIIAY \lI.ll
CAr’s CRADLE. Noted author Kurt Vonnegut will speak in
Lee Chapel tomorrow evening. He said, however, that he will
not give autographs or signatures so DON”T ASK HIM.

[.

Vonn gut will speak in Lee Chapel tomorrow i

   

BY KYLE WASS
sI2.\'IoR STAFF WRITER

Kurt Vonnegut, J r., a best-selling science-ﬁction au-
thor, will speak at Washington and Lee this week. Vonnegut
is also an accomplished ﬁlmmaker, sculptor, and graphic
artist.

The speech, entitled “How to Get a Job like Mine,”
will be held at 7:30 in Lee Chapel on Tuesday, February 4,
and is open to the public. It is sponsored by W&L’s
student—run Contact Committee. Vonnegut was the Con-
tact Committee’s first choice speaker, said Contact’s Vice
Chair of Publicity, Victoria Guroian.

Vonnegut is the author of many highly-acclaimed
novels and dozens of essays and short stories, including
Fates Worse than Death and Breakfast of Champions.
Among his better—known novels, Cat’s Cradle and Slaugh-
terhouse—Five are currently required reading in many col-

: owison runs Camus

BY IMRAN NAEEMULLAH
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

When one considers the traits
' that a Dean of Students might em-
'3 body, humor is probably not one that
comes straight to mind. More likely
 are fairness, discipline, vision, and
people skills, yet to these assets
"; David Howison adds a good sense of
" humor.
When he and I sat down to dis-
‘ cuss his 13-year career at Washing-
" ton and Lee, Howison was full of hu-
morous anecdotes much like the ones
he shares in his weekly newspaper
' columns. One of his favorites is the
time when he and his wife, Chris, were
sleeping, and around 3a.m. he heard
I voices talking on the front porch. For
‘ a while he tried to ignore them, but
after some time had passed he got
dressed and went downstairs. Sitting
on his porch he found two students,
so he introduced himself as the Dean
of Students to their utter surprise, for
they had thought it was a fraternity
house. Certainly, it takes a man who
doesn’t take himself too seriously to
deal with a job like that.
Howison came to Washington
and Lee in 1990 from St. Lawrence Uni-
, A versity in upstate New York, where he
 had spent 22 years in various adminis-
.- trative positions, on the advice of his I
 friends David Long, Vice President for
5" University Relations, and Professor
Lyn Wheeler. He notes that he was
5.‘ immediately impressed by the Honor
1" System, the quality of the faculty,
If W&L’s rich history, and former Presi-
 dent John Wilson, who had led the
 University through coeducation a few
' A years back. He also has his family roots
, in Virginia, so he was happy to come
to what he considers one of the most
I beautiful parts of the country.
 During his tenure at Washington
 and Lee, Howison has faced many
‘, " challenges. Perhaps his biggest one
I..}-' was also his initial one, the Fraternity
" Renaissance. Before Howison arrived
f;_ at W&L, the University had begun a
 $15 million project to completely reno-
‘iii 1 vate the fraternity houses and bring
them under University control. That
 had been largely completed, but the
if-lnecessary accompanying social
 change had not. Howison says that
 at the time, the predominant culture
3" in the fratemity houses was one of
,5. destruction, with students routinely
' breaking windows, smashing in walls,
destroying furniture, and essentially
turning the houses upside down.
Howison managed to persuade the
fraternity brothers that they needed
to preserve the newly renovated
houses and foster a culture of greater
respect for property, because he felt
the old situation was inconsistent
with the values of Washington and’
Lee. He succeeded, for while the oc-
casional broken window is something

age 6

reports.

 
   

«.-.=».:-.<r.'».*-.=«.*. -. 2 '3 '-..<*.:rr.<i~:-rs’-'».'<'»;—:e;<."4‘cw ‘e.':."«.‘~t

of a time—honored tradition, by and
large physical plant issues glowing

Howison characterizes the Dean
of Students job as being one in which
he needs to interact closely with the
student body, the rest of the adminis-
tration, and the faculty, ensuring that
he successfully facilitates the needs
and desires of each respective body
and achieves a degree of harmony. He
is the direct supervisor to 9 positions,
ranging from Career Services to the
Outing Club to the Dean of Freshmen,
so he must remain a ﬂexible person with
the ability to manage an array of re-
sponsibilities. In recent years, he says
that his job has been primarily to lay
the foundation for a more vibrant and
balanced social life, which will largely
be achieved through the creation of
the University Commons. He thus sees
a not entirely coincidental situation:
whereas his initial task was to help re-
form the fraternity system, his
successor’s initial job will be to con-
tinue what Howison has begun and
help make W&L a more welcoming
place to all types of people.

     

JEB R rig

RUNNING MAN. Howison runs around the track every day at noon. He achieved
Masters’ status in the All-American competition in the 800 meters.

Certainly, the new dean can count
on Howison’s continued presence af-
ter the one—month transition period, be-
cause Howison will be staying in Lex-
ington after he retires, although he will
no longer have an ofﬁcial role in Uni-
versity aﬁ°airs. He will, however, still
be a familiar face on campus, promis-
ing to continue to attend sporting
events, and he says he plans'on keep-
ing his locker in the new gym facility.
He and his wife, Chris, will still live in
their house in town, with their two
grown children, Mac and Annie, visit-
ing every now and then, and Chris will
continue to operate the Artisans store
on Washington Street. Howison muses
that the two things he is most looking
forward to are raking the leaves and
running, the latter being one of his
great passions. No doubt, Howison will
frequently be seen jogging along the
Front Lawn, waving to students as he
passes by, and making his way down
the paths worn immemorial by time.

This is the second article in a
series which feature in-depth inter-
views with administrators at Wash-
ington and Lee University.

‘.’fﬁ.¢.. ’ ' '»'.‘?‘.VJ‘/-‘.- -' ’«‘..‘...'3. Vt"-"a".7}“;’-«'

',~:e;5;.-\~.-

WANNA SEE ME

 

FOR A GOOD TLME CLICK...
 WWW. EBBRooKs.(:oM

NEW RATES AND SPECIAL DISCOUNTS AVAILABLE

IN COLOUR?

FOR A LIMITED TLIIIE ONLY

lege courses. Vonnegmt has also expanded artistic media
into sculpture, screen prints, and music. A biochemistry
major at Cornell College, Vonnegut is known for incorpo-
rating science ﬁction and black comedy into his literary
works. Slaughterhouse-Five, the novel written in 1969
that propelled Vonnegut into best-seller status, was only
several years later made into a movie of the same name.
Vonnegut later won critical acclaim through his ﬁlm com-
pany, Sourdough Productions.

Vonnegut wrote Slaughterhouse-Five based on his
experience of being captured in the Battle of the Bulge in
World War II, shortly after his mother, Edith Lieber
Vonnegut, committed suicide. In Dresden, Germany,
Vonnegut was forced to take shelter with otherAllied POW
in an underground meat locker, which was the inspiration
for the famous novel. Of his experience, Vonnegut wrote
that “After [being captured], I worked as a miner of
corpses, breaking into cellars where over a 100,000 Hansel

  
 
 

MONDAY. FEBRUARY 3. 2003

and Gretels were baked like gingerbread men.” Upon his ;<

return to the US, Vonnegut was awarded the Purple Heart.

After receiving his M.A. in anthropology from the
University of Chicago, Vonnegut held a number of jobs,
including those of a Harvard writing professor, a SAAB

dealer in Maine, a teacher of English at a school for men- P

tally disturbed children, and a public relations writer for
the General Electric Company Research Laboratory. It
was at GE that Vonnegut began writing stories for Collier ’s
magazine and the Saturday Evening Post, when he de-
cided to quit GE and move to Provincetown, Mass., where
he planned to write full-time, starting with a book mocking
GE

Vonnegut was a lecturer at the University of Iowa
Writer ’s Workshop, was elected Vice President of the Na-
tional Institute of Arts and Letters in 1975, and has re-
cently been named the State Author of New York, where
he currently resides.

BY CALEY ANDERSON
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

EC Meeting Report, Jan. 27, 2003

EC Business this week included the following
items-

1- Cold Check Committee Report:

The EC inquired with respect to the current status
of the Cold Check Committee, an organization which
protects the ﬁnancial credit of Washington and Lee
students in the Lexington community. If a student
bounces a check in or around Lexington, the Cold
Check committee will reimburse the merchant and trans-
fer the student’s debt to the university. So far, there
have been no bounced checks during Winter Term.

2- Project HOPE:

The EC inquired as to the nature of the new orga-
nization named Project HOPE, which applied for ofﬁ-
cial EC ﬁmding for Winter Term. Project HOPE is effec-
tively a cooperative effort between members of Hillel,
the Muslim League, the Minority Student Association,
and other related groups. Project HOPE sends non-
professional counselors to the Natural Bridge Correc-
tional Facility with the goal of mentoring and counsel-
ing cadets there in a rehabilitation effort.

PBS to document honor system

3- Law School Meeting Place:

PresidentvGerald Titus noted that the next EC meet-
ing, to be held Monday, January 3"’, would take place
in the Law School’s Mock Trial Courtroom in an effort
to be more accessible to law students.

4- Alberto Gonzales Speaker:

The EC noted that Alberto Gonzales, the Chief
Counsel for the President of the United States, will
likely speak at Washington and Lee sometime during
Spring Term. Mr. Gonzales is a noted legal authority,
and is considered by many to be President Bush’s top
pick for a new Supreme Court justice.

5- Honor System Video:

The EC discussed the possibility of creating a new I
Honor System orientation video, which would likely be
recorded on DVD. The EC reached no conclusive deci-
sron.

6- PBS Documentary:

The EC acknowledged that PBS will commence
broadcasting of their five-minute documentary
on Washington and Lee’s honor system this
Spring. The five-minute video details the con-
cept and execution of W&L’s unique Honor Sys-
tem, and willbe played as a transition piece be-
tween larger shows.

 

Don't Let This Happen to
You at Your Interview!

 

Etiquette Dinner

Monday, February 10”‘
University Center, 6:00 PM
Cost is $10 - Charge it home!

Come to Career Services by Feb. 5”‘ to Sign Up
Space is Limited, so Don't Delay!

AREER

NVASE-§{N{§’}7(}N AN!) i..l§¥:7. U 3‘&‘=i\»"iE7.I¥t.?§{’}“i’

ERVICES

\

7

 

 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2005

ail news briefs to

 

Artist’s Photos Featured at Joyful Spirit

A Joyful Spirit Café will be hosting an exhibit dedi-
cated to the art of Ms. Margaret Carroll through February
and March. Ms. Carroll is primarily a stained glass artist,
but the Lexington exhibit will feature some of her photog-
raphy efforts in Central America. A Joyful Spirit Cafe is a
vegetarian-styled restaurant and coffee house located at
26 South Main Street. It is open Monday through Friday
from 8:30-5:30, Saturday from 10:00-5:00, and Sunday from
11:00 to 4:00.

Etiquette Dinner Upcoming

A dinner event designed to hone participants’ senses
of etiquette and table manners will occur Monday, Febru-
ary 10th, from 6-8 pm in the University Center.

A reception will be held in Fairfax Lounge at 6pm,
followed by dinner in UC1 14 at 6:30pm. The cost is $10.
You can charge it home using your student id #, or pay
cash. The dinner is limited to the ﬁrst 30 students to
register. Registration ends February 5th. You must come
in person to Career Services (located in the lower level of
the Mattingley House) to sign up.

CIE to Sponsor “Music from China”

The 5-person ensemble, “Music from China,” will
present an evening of traditional and contemporary Chi-
nese music Friday, Feb. 7 at 7:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel on the
Washington and Lee University campus, courtest of the
Center for International Education. “Music from China”
conducts arts-in—education programs in New York City
and along the east coast. These include programs for the
Chinese American community, children’s concerts, music
instruction and arts education.

Lexington

 

Forecast
Monday- Overcast 58/48

Tuesday- Heavy Rain/ Snow, Wind 52/22
Wednesday- Partly Cloudy 38/12
Thursday— Partly Cloudy 34/18

Friday- Light Snow 32/20

Saturday- Partly Cloudy 36/15

 4..-v.-co...-:~u-:-«sly-mu:-.mm-. -1».-~..—. . 5 ....-. . 4
-. - ‘L:.'r"‘i‘/4.1‘-'7K.A2‘—L: .

Sunday- Partly Cloudy 39/21 i

 

Only 11 more days til Feb. Break!

N EWS

    

PAGE 3

SOV to educate new members

BY CALEY ANDERSON
ASSlSTAi\'T NEWS EDITOR

The famed “Something Of Value” program, sponsored
and operated by the Panhellenic Council, will be returning
to Washington and Lee in early March. The program deals
with alcohol issues as they relate to Washington and Lee ’s
ﬁve sororities and the women who comprise them.

Last year, the program was sponsored by the Na-
tional Panhellenic Conference, and much of the program’s
content came from that source. Due to the fact that the
Conference only sponsors a few of these programs na-
tionally per year, Washington and Lee will be planning
and executing its own program this year. The Panhellenic
Council is aiming at a target audience of sorority leaders,

The centerpiece of last year’s program was a mock
trial in which various students and Panhellenic lead-
ers participated in all roles involved, from lawyer to
judge to the accused parties. “This year, we’re only
doing the mock trial part of the program, and we’re
doing our own,” said Panhellenic advisor Teresa
Glassman. The leaders of the Panhellenic Council,
who are often also leaders of their respective Greek
organizations, will be the accused parties. The trial
this year will “most likely be a drunk driving—related
accident,” said Glassman.

The program, which was named “Something Of Value”
last year, will not necessarily have the same name this
year, though that is an option that the Council is consider-
ing. The overall goal of the program, according to
Panhellenic leaders, is to raise awareness of W&L rules

for alcohol in sororities, as well as of the rules of the na-
tional Greek organizations which supervise speciﬁc so-
rorities.

The mock trial, which will be the focus of the
program, is tentatively scheduled for Sunday, March
2"“. Though the law school’s mock trial courtroom
was considered as a potential location, it will not be
used due to distance from the primary W&L under-
graduate campus, as well as low seating capacity.
Instead, the trial will be held in Lee Chapel. Follow-
ing the trial, there will be breakout sessions where
the sorority members will hold discussions of their
thoughts on the trial and its issues with Panhellenic
members. Ms. Glassman confirmed that these ses-
sions will “most likely be held in Colonnade class-
rooms.”

sisters, and pledges.

nford weighs in on new con racep ive

BY CAMILLE Rrcxms
THE STANFORD DAILY (S'1'A.NEoRD U.)

(U—WIRE) STANFORD, Calif. - By the
end of the year, the Food and Drug Admin-
istration may approve a new birth control
pill, commonly called Seasonale, which may
have a dramatic impact not only on contra-
ceptive methods but also on female
lifestyles.

When Seasonale is used correctly, it
can effectively reduce the number of peri-
ods a woman has each year from 13 to four.
While this unique aspect of the pill has some
women and medical professionals at
Stanford University anxiously awaiting its
release, many others remain skeptical.

Seasonale is composed of estrogen and
progestin, two hormones regularly found in
other oral contraceptives. While the cumu-
lative amount of hormones contained in
Seasonale is lower than that of other birth
control pills, such as Levlen and Ortho Tri
Cyclen, it must be taken 84 days in a row
rather than the standard 21 days before the
customary seven-day break.

Similar to other conventional birth con-
trol pills, Seasonale works by suppressing
ovulation and preventing the development
of an endometrium layer in the uterus.

“Women have informally been achiev-
ing the effects of Seasonale for years by
simply skipping the week of placebos in their
regular birth control pills,” said Kati

  barpossible

Willoughby, a women’s health and
Herstory coordinator at the Women’s
Community Center.

“Providing a pill speciﬁcally intended
for this will hopefully lead to greater com-
munication about the issue between pa-
tients and health—care providers.”

There are relatively few health con-
cerns related to the use of Seasonale. Nega-
tive side effects include breast tenderness
and blood clots in very rare cases, though
these symptoms were reported to disap-
pear within the ﬁrst several months of use.
Research has also concluded that the pill
will not enhance women’s chances of de-
veloping breast cancer.

In fact, physicians suggest that men-
strual suppression resulting from the use
of the pill may even be healthy for women.

“In a primitive society, women may
only have 10 or 20 periods in her life be-
cause she is pregnant or breastfeeding the
rest of the time,” said Dr. Jerry Shefren, a
director in the obstetrics and gynecology
department at the School of Medicine.

“Having regular 28-day cycles year
after year may in fact be abnormal.”

Some doctors believe that women who
ovulate regularly without getting pregnant
have higher risks of certain cancers and
endometriosis, a condition that could lead
to internal bleeding and lesions resulting
from malfunctions in the menstrual cycle.
In addition, oral contraceptives are shown

to cut the risk of uterine and ovarian can-
cer.

“It sounds like any woman’s dream
come true, not having to deal with pads,
tampons, etc.,” said Valerie Lundy—
Wagner, a campus and community out-
reach coordinator at the WCC.

The pill is still pending government
approval; however, with tests consis-
tently proving it safe and effective,
Seasonale may be available with prescrip-
tion by the end of this year. Upon FDA
approval, Stanford’s health centers will
need to decide whether to provide it as
another birth control option for patients.

“I do hope that [Vaden Health Cen-
ter] distributes Seasonale,” Willoughby
said. “I believe that women should have
the opportunity to choose to control their
menstruation if it is medically possible.
However, I don’t believe it is the right
choice for everyone.”

The WCC will continue to be heavily
involved in educating women about their
birth control options, regardless of the
University’s decision concerning
Seasonale. The WCC will most likely hold
workshops and information sessions on
Seasonale and other methods of birth con-
trol toward the end of winter quarter.

While the community center will not
advocate use of this pill over other meth-
ods of contraception, the staff expressed
its hope to create a forum to raise women’s

awareness of Seasonale, and to help stu-
dents make informed choices about whether
to use the product.

“Our main purpose is to provide
women in Stanford’s community with in-
formation,” Lundy-Wagner said. “After
consulting a physician who recommends
it, women on campus should deﬁnitely
have access to this form of birth control.”

The WCC and other health sources
also expressed the need to draw women’s
attention to the fact that Seasonale is not a
proper form of contraception when used
alone.

“Unfortunately, oral contraceptives
only work at preventing pregnancy, but
they don’t do a thing about sexually trans-
mitted infections,” said junior Erik Wong, a
peer health educator at Freshman / Sopho-
more College.

“So we always advise that students
know what other forms of contraception
there are, and that the pill can be used in
conjunction with a condom.”

While the University will need to de-
cide whether to have the drug available by
prescription, a variety of resources on cam-
pus will still provide women with the infor-
mation they need to make educated deci-
sions regarding the pill.

“It will be interesting to see in ten years
down the road, if the phenomenon of
monthly menstruation is still common-
place,” Willoughby said.

BAR, FROM PAGE 1

“The GHQ was originally de-
signed as a tap house,” Associate
Dean of Students Buddy Atkins said.

Atkins said the GHQ sold beer and
wine until 1985 or 1986 when Virginia
law changed the legal drinking age.

“It wasn’t worth it to be a tap house
after that,” he said. “The majority of the
student body couldn’t be served.”

While administrators deliberate
about the possible addition of the bar or
tap house, Commons construction con-
tinues as scheduled despite cold weather.

Howison said the administrators
have every reason to believe the Com-
mons will be “up and running” by the fall.

“The Commons is a fabulous
building,” Burish said. “It’s elegant
and it will have resources that this
school has never had before in it—a
piano in the lounge, :1 movie theatre,
areas to plug up computers to the net-
work, wonderful conference rooms,

ofﬁces for student organizations, food
courts and an all-night coffee house.”
Administrators continue to meet
with faculty, board and student lead-
ers to discuss other possible additions
to the $30 million building project.
Burish said he is looking to pro-
vide opportunities for all members of
the W&L community to use the Com-
mons. He wants law students to in-
teract with undergraduate students
and members of Greek organizations
to interact with non—Greek students.
“We want to attract the Greek
students too,” Burish said. “It won’t
work if it doesn’t attract all students.”
As construction continues,
Howison said the University ofﬁcials
should make a decision about the in-
clusion of a student bar in the next
few months. He said if administrators
decide against serving alcohol initially,
it could always be added later.
“We are looking at this as an alter-
native to going downtown,” Burish said.

Teach carefully. We can “ lo‘ yo ‘head
Call 877-ACT-WlSE or Visit wwwjactag ‘ ,

i,\'ri0lence.org.

But it wasrfc as bar for long. The local Police Department shut down Swifty’s
Lounge for illegal drug activity. instead uflcorrdemning the property, may
contacted their local Community coalition. The coalition tsroughrin contractors
who donated their time. to rcnovarz the building. And the doctor go: his hospstal

to volunteer senlices for Families that need drug counscling.

1:’; funny what ha ppens when um all work together. Communities become :1 better
place for everyone, especialiy our children, Community coalitions bring
other community groups together. And getting involved is easy. Just contaa
www.belpyouroo:rImuriity.ovg or 1-877-KlDS—31 3. Th2_v‘ll tell you how your group

can help. You’ll be surprised how much you can aczzompiish.

‘I00 set We vlneil you set togetner.

Offiu of llaiiaml Drug formal Polity '

Start rig at $15,155.” Model Shown .5 lil, $35.

Seats ﬁve, has 53 cubic
feet of cargo space. and
is available with 186 hp

and a 6-speed manual
shift. Even evolution
can’! fully explain it.

M02 TM-Lilli WEB Siéﬁﬁ Ll-‘SA. 1%. 51.13% L?!
l?l]iTFl3l7lT§lz'3EE‘ll’l'ﬁtﬂ‘i‘E'S‘@J.*%tlSl3PMLl%ES
DE;hﬁ'%1  3 MD  FE. EQSALFEIBS Til-‘E
 Lﬁliﬁf. Bfilﬁlﬁ M}  PE{1l@
 ﬁiClLL‘l. :i}§i‘l.Ell NE W? ‘:I.‘hli’l

    

PAGE 4

 

Sii\l5l3\iiPiﬁED1TORlAL

We owe much to Columbia crew

America is a nation of adventurers. Since
our founding on the frontier of civilization, we
have pressed westward, into the sky, the depths
of the sea, and since 1961, into space. Every
step in our journey of discovery and explora-
tion has been fraught with risk, but courageous
men and women have carried the torch of hu-
man endeavour despite the cost to themselves
and their families.

The crew of the ill-fated Space Shuttle
Columbia was no different. Commander Rick
Husband left behind two children. Pilot William
McCool’s mother has asked that shuttle ﬂights
resume. Payload Commander Michael Ander-
son had given a signed picture of the crew to
his former Sunday School teacher. Engineer
Kalpana Chawla carried the dreams of India
into space with her. Pilot David Brown took
with him a ﬂag from Arlington’s Yorktown High
School that had already been carried up Mt.
Everest. Physician Dr. Laurel Clark’s eight-
year-old son, Lain, had worried about the dan-
gers of space ﬂight. Colonel Ilan Ramon, the
first Israeli in space, had survived two wars
and was the son of an Auschwitz survivor.

Since the Columbia first ﬂew 22 years ago,
shuttle ﬂights had become routine and their
safety assumed. Saturday’s tragedy reminds us
how dangerous space ﬂight still is and how much
superhuman courage and adventurism drives
frontiersmen—even on the ﬁnal frontier.

Following the 1986 Challenger explosion,
President Reagan read “High Flight,” a poem
by John Gillespie Magee, Jr., an American who
fought for the RAF during World War II and
died in an training accident when only 19 years
old. In tribute to the seven great astronauts who
died in the service of makind, we have printed
it below.

Oh! I have slipped the surly bonds of earth

And danced the skies on laughter-silvered wings
Sunward I ’ve climbed, and joined the tumbling mirth
Of sun-split clouds—and done a hundred things

You have not dreamed of—wheeled and soared and swung
High in the sunlit silence, hov ’ring there

1 've chased the shouting wind along,

And ﬂung my eager craft through footless halls of air.
Up, up the long, delirious burning blue

I've topped the wind-sweptheights with easy grace 3 -
Where never lark, or even eagle ﬂew

And, while with silent lifting mind I ’ve trod

The high untrespassed sanctity of space

Put out my hand and touched the face of God

    

oou<rrsYuuw nah: mm
HEROES. Columbia crew, l—r, front row, Rick Husban ,
Kalpana Chawla, William McCool, back row, David
Brown, laurel Clark, Michael Anderson and Han Ramon.

THE R1N<;~mi Put

  

mm 1. mRwAA'
OPINIONS EDrroR
EMAIL: K[RWANB@WLU.EDU

PINIONS

War hits home for Ramsey

Sister soon to join troops deployed to Persian Gulf, Bush still not proved necessity of war

Liberals have it hard these days.
Charles Barron, a New York City
Councilman, is on F ox’s Hannity &
Colmes. The current debate is on the
speech made by former South Afri-
can President Nelson Mandela
which said the United States is the
country in this world committing
atrocities and called President Bush
a racist. Barron was agreeing with
all Mandela had to say, however the
show’s liberal commentator Alan
Colmes-could not agree.

Also, senators like Ted Kennedy
speak out against the possibility of
an attack on Iraq, after he slept
through the President’s State of the
Union address on Tuesday. George
Clooney is running his mouth. Seri-
ously, what the hell does George
Clooney know? About as much as
Sean Penn.

The most positive piece of anti-
war commentary out there these days
are commercials from the Methodist
Church, which happens to be the
President’s church. The ads are ques-
tioning the morality of a preemptive
strike on the Iraqi nation.

However, none of these efforts
put a real face on the issue. But for
me, the possibility of war has sud-
denly become very personal.

My sister is an Ensign in the
United States Navy. She is a medical/
surgical nurse stationed in San Diego,
California, working in a hospital that
receives soldiers from the largest
Marine Corps base in the world, Camp
Pendleton.

Over the past months, she has
gone to work to be surprised at who
was no longer there because they had
been deployed. Typically, military de-
ployment orders specify a length of

FRoNmN1=.. Should war be declared against Iraq, Ensign Ramsey will join her fellow
sailors, such as those aboard the USS George Washington, in the Persian Gulf.

six months. These days the duration
is merely marked, “Indeﬁnite.”

Just a week ago, my sister’s
number came up. While the date of
her departure is not yet known, her
superiors told her to pack up and
expect to be gone by mid-March at
the latest. This news has sent a riff
through our family and friends. My
mother is constantly talking to other
families who have
loved ones involved
in current operations
for support. She has
been reminded of my
deceased grandfather who was a
Marine veteran of the Second World
War.

My father has been reminded
of his time in the service. In fact, he
was stationed in Okinawa, Japan
when my sister was born. When he
told his mother of the news about
my sister, my grandmother was
brought to tears.

My entire family has realized de-
ployment was a possibility from the
very beginning of my sister’s military

 

LEFT or CENTER
NICK RAMSEY ‘O5

career. The week my sister was fully
commissioned as an officer was also
the week of September 1 1, 2001. It was
apparent from day one of her career
that being a military ofﬁcer means
more than it had in decades.

So knowing all this, why am I still
skeptical over this war? During the
Cuban missile crisis, President
Kennedy came to the American pub-
lie with detailed infor-
mation of the threat
posed on the Ameri-
can people.

While Bush’s
State of the Union Address alluded to
information that American intelligence
has gathered about the threat of Iraq, I
need more. I am extremely anxious to
hear what Colin Powell has to say after
meeting with the United Nations this
Wednesday.

For Bush to win my support on a
preemptive strike on any nation, I need
to know exactly what the threat is. To
legitimize the Commander in Chief ’s
order that has uprooted my sister from
her husband, her job, and her coun-

try and set her down in a war zone on
the other side of the globe, I need to
know that her presence there is the
only way to solve the world’s current
problems. Every American deserves
to know why their family and friends
in our Armed Forces have been sent
to ﬁght a war. After all, this is our gov-
emment.

Liberals calling for peace have
been called un-American and unpa-
triotic. People say they do not sup-
port our military. Truly, nothing could
be further from the truth.

I support the men and women
who have sacrificed so much more
than I ever could in the service of
this country. However, there is
nothing un-American about a
healthy political discourse ques-
tioning our leaders who command
our military. This type of demo-
cratic discourse is often the result
of people like myself who have a
personal interest in the safety of
the American military. When I ques-
tion war, my older sister is the first
thing on my mind.

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2005

Bush “dead on” taxes

I’m sure you’ve heard the saying “Born free, taxed
to death.” If only it were that simple. Unfortunately, in
America, taxation doesn’t end there. In our Brave New
World, we tax the dead to pay those who don’t work.
Aldous Huxley would be proud.

Recently, Nobel-laureate Milton Friedman penned
an op-ed in the Wall Street Journal in whichhe pro-
claimed support for President Bush’s newest proposed
tax cut, the center-

piece of which is a T‘.
$670 billion reduction RIGHT ON‘

in the tax sharehold— IOHN  HEATH ‘O4
ers pay on dividends.

Friedman claimed he supported the tax cut not because
he agreed that taxing dividends twice is unfair (which it
is), but because he supports any tax cut because de-
creased revenues should force a reduction in govem-
ment spending.

F riedman’s point provides a refreshing perspec-
tive. Too often, professional politicians turn economic
questions—like ones of taxation—into political hot po-
tatoes. Friedman and his fellow economists dismiss
class-warfare demagoguery as rightly irrelevant: if tax
cuts are an effective vehicle for getting the govem-
ment out of our private lives, then, as Tom DeLay says,
“(he’s) never met a tax out he didn’t like.”

The problem, of course, is that Democrats, who
never met a government program they didn’t like, rely
on the revenue from taxes to fund spending programs
that help their core constituents. The ironic reality is
that they are applying a $100 solution to a $5 problem.
If instead of funding out-of-work drug addicts and
welfare queens in perpetuity the government cut off
the money spigot and steered them to vocational train-
ing, the govemment’s long-run costs would decrease
and productivity would increase.

Of course, the Democrats will ﬁght tooth and nail
to avoid this; if the people who make up the Demo-
crats’ base stop depending on the windfall of federal
dollars and start participating in the capitalist system,
they might start voting Republican.

Are there other tax cuts that might make more
sense then a dividend tax cut? Sure. To start, the gov-
ernment could make the FICA withholding tax fair.
One of the most duplicitous government programs is
the “split” of FICA withholding. Under the current
system, an employee contributes 7.5% to FICA, while
his employer “contributes” a matching 7.5%. In real-
ity, however, the employer calculates his 7.5% contri-
bution in his overall accounting for the cost of each
employee. Thus, we are presented with the situation
in which the employee is paying the full 15% (since
the employer would be prepared to pay the employee
an extra 7.5% if the tax was not in place). In essence,

an “employer contribution.” 1 ' ' ' ‘

Though ameliorating that problem would top my
personal “to-do” list, the Bush tax cut still endures as
an important vehicle to realize the Friedman doctrine.
Of course, there are two sides two this coin. The vision
of government limited to only “needs” (as opposed to
“wants”) can only be realized if leaders possess the
political courage to force government to live within its
means. Politicians debating and horse—trading over a
tax cut do no good if they spend an equal amount of
time debating and horse—trading over a growth in spend-
ing for their favorite federal project.

Fortunately, not all branches of the federal bu-
reaucracy share Congress’s love of spending the
people’s money. In South Dakota v. Dole, Justice Sandra
Day O’Connor famously wrote, “The immense size and
power of the Government of the United States ought
not obscure its fundamental character. It remains a
Government of enumerated powers.” Let’s hope that

 

J. Sam Slicer, 1898L
Katie J. Howell

Brett T. Kirwan
Catherine C. Guy

J eb Brooks

Erin Julius

Caley Anderson
Tallie Jamison

Cody Gabband

Donny Banks

Founder

Editor in chief
Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Photo Editor
Sports Editor
Asst. News Editor
Photographers

Copy Editor

Paul Seifert
Thomas Worthy
Henry Grimball
McQueen Calvert

Business Manager
Asst. Business Manager
, Circulation Director
Advertising Assistant

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor in chief, but The Ring—tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu

http://phi.wlu.edu

Letters to the Editor

Ad could pose threat to students

Dear Editor,

I’m writing in regard to the ad soliciting phone books
that you ran on page two of the January 27th edition. I am
offended by your lack of respect for the personal privacy
of every member of the W&L community.

Do you not recall the situation a couple. of years
ago when a registered sex offender living close to cam-
pus purchased an ad in a campus paper asking for phone
books? I’ll go ahead and blame you guys if there’s an
increase in telemarketers calling. Yes, I know that le-
gally it’s not an invasion of my privacy for you to be
running an ad that will quite possibly lead to some-
body I may or may not know selling another stranger
my phone number. But that’s just semantics, which I
will not argue about. '

I also know that, yes, my phone number is available
on the school’s website for anyone to see. But I think
there’s a bit of a difference here. And I know that you say
that ads run in the paper do not reﬂect the opinions of the

 

 

“3 -2 beer. (so  fresh-
men can drink)”
-Chip Muir ‘03L

“Heineken.”

 

-Penin Monroe ‘06

wisdom can make the trek to Capitol Hill.

paper or its staff. They do seem, however, to reﬂect your
ability to make good choices.

Sincerely,

Glenn DeLaney ‘03

Editor is Note:

The Phi, too, is concerned about the possibility
of deceptive advertisements. As such, we carefully inves-
tigate the source, authenticity and legitimate intentions
of any advertisement we print. ‘

MSA continues as campus punching bag

Dear Editor,

Every time I open up a campus paper there is yet
another eyebrow—raising article about the Minority Stu-
dent Association inside. In the most recent article (“Blacks
rush, pledge,” January 27) the MSA was accused of seg-
regating minority students from Greek life at W&L.

That false accusation is just one of many prob-
lems. First of all, the title of the article was “Blacks rush,

Pledge,” then the writer goes on to speak of minorities.
Throughout the article the terms blacks, African-Ameri-
cans, and minorities are used interchangeably. However,
the term minority also includes Asians, Hispanics, and
Paciﬁc Islanders as well as any other race, creed or ethnicity
not represented in the majority. Why then does the writer
only choose to discuss black students when using the
term minority?

Another issue that I have with the article is that the
writer, (Sharyn) Regan, apparently did not do any research
as to ﬁnd out why many black students on campus chose
not to rush. The MSA is a group organization and as
W&L students we all know that it is very possible and
extremely common for a student to be a part of more than
one activity, so how would the MSA prevent a student
from participating in Greek life?

The answer is simple, it doesn’t. This brings me to
Regan’s idea that the MSA segregates black students from
W&L social life. If this is true then what segregates the

SEE LETTERS, PAGE 5

 

“A Kamikaze achme.”
-Tiffany Todd ‘06

 

“Corona.”
-Kevin Pharris ‘O6

    

 ‘uinnes.” I
-John Gafﬁiey ‘O6

 

the government double‘-taxes employees by calling it I

 

 

  

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2003

:l-‘J ll

 

 
 

1‘ He spoke decisively, ﬁrmly, and
with the conﬁdence of a man who
knows what he is doing. Our Presi-
dent, George W. Bush, addressed the
nation last Tuesday with the air of a

It seasoned statesman—not quite the
likes of Churchill but up there with
Kennedy—-and delivered to Ameri-
cans a message of hope in a time of
increasing uncertainty. He expressed
faith in the view which most Ameri-

leans fervently hope is true: that
America is pursuing the best path for
its future, and that of the world.

1 Contrary to what some had ex-
pected, he did not declare war on Iraq,
or any other nation for that matter. In
fact, although he did address our con-
cerns abroad sensitively and persua-

V sively, domestic issues dominated the
ﬁrst half of his speech, an appropri-
ate dichotomy for a man who deals
with things with such simplicity and
rationality. On the domestic front, the
President addressed the concerns of
a broad range of Americans, reﬂect-
ing his bipartisan sensibilities despite
his ﬁrmly conservative principles.

4 The President spoke ﬁrst and
foremost about the economy. He

pointed out that despite the “reces- »

sion, terrorist attacks, corporate scan-
' dals, and stock market declines, our
' economy is recovering.” He noted,
however, that it is not growing fast
enough, either for him or for the aver-
age American. It is to the latter that he
‘K spoke directly, urging the formation
of more small businesses. He de-
manded tax cuts because “the best
and fairest way to make sure Ameri-
‘ cans have. . .money is not to tax it
away in the first place.” All of the Re-
publicans in the Congress stood to
applaud the President, while nary a
Democrat deigned to lift his well-pad-
!’ ded rear, a ﬁtting response for a Con-
gress that in the aftermath of the 2002
election better reﬂects the true Ameri-
can demographic.

Most importantly on the eco-
nomic front, the President spoke of
fairness. Far from beneﬁting only the
rich, he clearly displayed his concern
for the average Ameri-
7 can. Aside from his tax
cuts, he spoke of a
_ budget that he will be
‘ sending to Congress
that reﬂects only the most important
priorities in America, one that in-
creases at the rate the average family’s
income is expected to grow next year:
four percent.

Speaking to those concerned
about social security, healthcare, the
environment, and social decay, the
President proposed smart solutions.
He reaffirmed his call for individual
retirement accounts for younger work-
ers to invest in, and denounced a na-
tionalized health plan that would only
deteriorate the quality of health care
3 in the long—run. In its place, he sought

Medicare reform with his election
promise of prescription drug cover-
age, and, most appropriately, he called
for the return of the health care sys-
" tem to those who know it best: doc-
tors, nurses, and patients. He noted
that “no one has ever been healed by
a frivolous lawsuit.” Not surprisingly,
, the man who made his millions help-
ing to inﬂate the costs of American
medicine, former trial lawyer and 2004
Democratic presidential hopeful,
Senator John Edwards, did not stand

’' to applaud.
The President called for power
plants that will be 70 percent cleaner
within 15 years, and proposed an ini-

  
    

4

   

I
. The authority on
' , Washington and Lee
I y for 106 years.
rr
tr
it
J. Samuel Slicer 1898L, FOUNDER
V o
Ring—tum Phi,
Sticken'—bum!
We are the stuff
7 From Lexington!

 

  ‘Bush deliver p



 

IONS
edid SOTU

(I).Rll5YZl1Lll/.  r *-

SERIOUS SOTU. President Bush gave a clear, determined and impassioned speech.

tiative to prevent devastating forest
ﬁres. For the truly environmentally
neurotic, he called for the develop-
ment—complete with $1.2 billion in
federal funding!of hydrogen—pow-
ered cars. To help heal America’s less
fortunate, he suggested an array of
reforms, new programs, and over a
billion dollars in direct funding for
community—based programs. With the
compassion of a man who himself has
suffered from alcohol and drug addic-
tion, he reminded us that “the miracle
of recovery is possible.”

Less than a week after the 30”‘
anniversary of Roe vs. Wade, the
President afﬁrmed the fundamental
right to life that every human being
enjoys. He called for the banning of
the barbaric and unnecessary prac-

tice of partial—birth

 abortion, a measure"

President Clinton

IMRAN NAEEMUU-AH ‘05 never had the guts to

sign. He also urged a
ban on all form of a human cloning in
the spirit of respecting the sanctity
of creation. Critically, he said that do-
ing so would set a high standard for
humanity, another sign of his leader-
ship of America and the example it
sets for the world.

In what might be the showcase
of his compassionate agenda, the
President announced‘ his desire to
have the Congress authorize $15 bil-
lion in funding over the next ﬁve
years, fully two—thirds of it new
money, to help fight the global
scourge of AIDS in the places where
it hurts the most: Africa and the Car-
ibbean. His proposal is unsurpassed
in its scope by any other, and is a
profound example of mercy mixed
with common sense.

It is this theme of common sense
that permeated the next half of the
speech, dealing with the issues of in-
ternational terrorism and other threats
to the security of America, her friends,
and her allies. He recommended almost
$6 billion in vaccines against lethal dis-
eases like smallpox, and instructed the
nation’s intelligence agencies to merge
their information and combine their ef-
forts, a sign that he comprehends the
dangers that face us daily.

He took the strongest stance
possible on the issue of freedom hat-
ers, and he pointed out that in the last
century, Hitlerism, militarism, and
Communism were all defeated by
those who love freedom, with the
United States in the lead. He reported
that the United States is working on
common-sense arms control, and sup-
ported the people of Iran in their
struggle against a tyrannical and op-
pressive theocratic regime. His solu-
tion to the North Korean problem is
to lead by example along with South
Korea, Japan, China, and Russia,
showing the North Koreans that
nuclear weapons can only have nega-
tive consequences. Let’s see if their
mad dictator listens.

Finally, and most importantly from
a foreign affairs standpoint, the Presi-
dent made what will hopefully be his
ﬁnal case against Iraq before change
for the good occurs. He made it very
clear for all present that Iraq has pro-
duced weapons of mass destruction
in the past, has continued to produce
them in deﬁance of the United Nations,
and has made little to no signs of de-
stroying them or revealing them to the
world. No doubt Saddam Hussein in-
tends to reveal them, but not in quite
the way one would want. Therefore,
as the President so unmistakably put
it, “If Saddam Hussein does not ﬁilly
disarm, for the safety of our people and
for the peace of the world, we will lead
a coalition to disann him.” In doing so,
he satisﬁed the (mostly) Lefties who
are hell-bent on having every nation
in the world agree that action is neces-
sary by promising to seek cooperation,
all the while staying true to his prin-
ciples by refusing to back down in the
face of irrational opposition.

It was a masterful speech, one that
reﬂected the transition President Bush
has made from mediocre speaker to a
near master of the genre. He seized the
moment, and made his case for a better
and more just America clearly, con-
cisely, and calmly. Far from the nefari-
ous cowboy the liberal press portrays
him as, he showed that he is a balanced,
capable, and competent leader who will
bring us through this difficult time and
deliver us to a better future.

 

# 1 Spring Break Vacations!

Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, & Florida.
Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices!
Group Discounts, Group organizers travel free!
Space is limited! Hurry up & Book Now!
1-800-234-7007
www.endlesssummertours.com

2 bedroom apartment for rent in Lexington
for next school year for $550.00 per month.
Living room/kitchen and 1 bath.

Low cost central heat and air conditioning.
Owner pays for water & sewer.
Common area washer & dryer.

Call Realtor Joe Vita at Vita & Associates, Inc.
at 463-9551 for details.

 

Larnans, FROM PAGE 4

white students or the international students who chose
not to participate in the rush activities or choose not to
join a fraternity or sorority? It is as if the black students
cannot be independent for the same reasons other
students choose to be independent. Some students just
do not have an interest in the Greek life system as a
whole, regardless of their race and it is wrong to say
that black students have a closed mind (especially if
you have never asked a black student) about fraternities
and sororities just because they opt not to join one.

My suggestion to Regan and anyone else who
decides to relieve some of their daily stress by taking a
punch at the MSA is to get the facts. For example, al-
though all of the black students who rushed did join a
fraternity or sorority, not all of the minority students who
rushed decided to join. If you are truly concerned about
integrating black students into the W&L social scene it
would be advantageous for you to interact with some-
especially before writing an article about them. Lastly, to
the cornucopia of writers who target the MSA in the cam-
pus papers, I would occasionally like to see a legitimate
quote from a member of the MSA or your notes from the
latest MSA meeting in your article because it is just bad
journalism to write on something to which you have no
accurate knowledge.
Sincerely,
Kristin Evans ‘06

Pre-Roe v. Wade, women not supported

Dear Editor,

I have never been confronted with the decision to
have an abortion. I have never, to tell the truth, been preg-
nant. And I don’t know what that decision would be if I
had to make it. I’d like to think that I would not feel as if
abortion had to be considered as one of my options. Be-

cause, honestly, abortion is killing a living creature. Spe- *

ciﬁcally, a child. However, I disagree with some of Brett
Kirwan’s article (“Abortion kills children,” January 27).

He stated that before abortion, accidental pregnan-
cies were supported by family and friends. Unfortunately,
I don’t think that was any more true then than it is now. It
was still considered an embarrassment, or a monumental
and nearly irreversible mistake, leading to illegal or self-
induced abortions which in turn often led to health difﬁ-
culties and even death.

I would agree with Patricia Heaton in her statement
that abortion is a sign that we have failed women. Rather
than targeting abortion, or the legalization of such, as the
main cause and failing, perhaps we should see it as just
one of the symptoms. Many, although I’m sure not all,
people who have abortions feel that they have no alterna-
tive. Shouldn’t there be more pressure on education and
options? Not everyone has the access to money that
makes it possible to provide for a child. Girls may feel that
they can’t even admit to being pregnant, to say nothing
of having a child. For some, abortion may not be the easy
way out, but the only way out. And that is what needs to
be changed.

Sincerely,
Mathilde Hungerford ‘06

Bible condemns homosexuality

Dear Editor,

Nick Ramsey (“Safe Place follows tradition of
W&L,” January 27) makes a poor argument regarding
the meaning of “know” in Genesis 19:5. Besides the
KJV, there are ﬁve other translations of the Bible that
explicitly link “know” with a sexual act: “have sex with”
(NIV), “have relations with” (with a note, “i.e., have
intercourse,” NASB), “be intimate with” (AMP), “have
sex with” (NLT) and “have sex with” (CEV). While ho-
mosexuality need not have been “the sin” of Sodom, it
is clear from context that “know” is not meant merely as
a desire to meet.

A better argument from the Old Testament against
homosexuality is from Leviticus 18:22, “You shall not
lie with a male as one lies with a female; it is an abomi-
nation” (NASB).

In the New Testament, Jesus may not speciﬁcally
address homosexuality, but most Christians also ac-
cept the authority of the Paulian Epistles.

In I Corinthians 6:9-10, Paul writes, “Do not be de-
ceived; neither fomicators, nor idolaters, nor adulter-
ers, nor effeminate, nor homosexuals, nor thieves, nor
the covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swin-
dlers, shall inherit the kingdom of God.”

Regardless of the validity of Keeling’s feelings to-
ward Safe Place, his opinion of homosexuality is valid
within a biblical Christian tradition.

Sincerely,
Kyle Sulli ‘06

PAGE 5

Ramsey responds:

When I referred to translations of the word
"know ” in the story of Sodom and Gomorrah, I was refer-
ring to the original Hebrew text, not the multiple En-
glish translations you referred to. There are ﬁve diﬂerent
Hebrew words meaning “to know. ” The one that refers to
carnal knowledge is not the one used in the original
Hebrew version of the story.

Passages in the Bible have been used to legiti-
mize slavery, segregation, apartheid, and the subordina-
tion of women; not everyone interprets it correctly. Christ
taught love and acceptance. This is something that needs
no interpretation.

Safe Place is on the web

Dear Editor,

Regarding the recent editorials in the Phi (Nick
Ramsey, “Safe Place follows tradition of W&L,” January
27), on Safe Place, I thought you might be interested to
know that there is a Web site for the program: http://
multiculturallife.wlu.edu/safeplace/.

Contrary to covering up its existence, the administra— .

tion hopes that this site will help people learn more about
the program. It also offers downloadable Safe Place sym-
bols for people to print out and post.

The link to the site can be found on the Campus Life
section of the W&L gateway page.
Sincerely,
Jessica Carter
Web Writer and Editor for External Relations

Abortion better off legal

Dear Editor,

I was very disturbed to read the articles entitled
“Abortion Kills Children” and “Pro-lifers look to save
Constitution” in last week’s Phi. First off, I am pro-choice
not pro-abortion. I am not of the mindset that all children
should be aborted, which is what being pro-abortion
would imply. I am pro-choice, meaning, I ﬁilly support a
woman’s right to choose what she wants to do concem-
ing her body.

A common misconception is that with the ruling on
Roe vs. Wade the practice of abortion began. In medi-
eval times, midwives and doctors used herbs such as
Queen Anne’s lace, rue, and iris that would terminate
unwanted pregnancies. Long before it was legal, women
were seeking out unlicensed doctors to perform these
illegal acts. While your descriptions of the procedures
by which an abortion is obtained are gruesome, at least
they are done in safe, sterile environments by doctors
who are medically trained to perform such procedures,
thereby inﬂicting the least amount of long term damage
on the mother.

As for children being “a gift from God,” last time I
hecked a fetus developed after a sperm fertilized an egg,
not when God deemed a female worthy of Her gifts. Let’s
not kid ourselves, “God” has nothing to do with the
sexual union of a horny guy and girl.

It is easy for you to sit there in judgment of a situa-
tion that you can never ﬁnd yourself in using God as
your justiﬁcation. Fortunately, at least for now, the Su-
preme Court provides my justiﬁcation. When it comes
down to it, a woman’s body is her business. Abortion is
legal. Deal with it.

Sincerely,
Rian Lewis ‘05

Ramsey right on Safe Place

Dear Editor,

Kudos to Nick Ramsey for having the balls to sub-
mit his opinion (“Safe Place follows tradtion of W&L,”
January 27) regarding Keeling’s “concem” for the Safe
Place here at Washington and Lee. Safe Place is a re-
markable step forward for this otherwise conservative
institution. It illustrates that the administration acknowl-
edges that there are indeed students who lead alternate
lifestyles on campus and is actually doing something
to make their time here as comfortable as possible, to
include them into the body of the school, to offer them
support.

I applaud the administration, faculty, and students
who have fought to have the Safe Place remain at this
ﬁne institution. And I take my hat off to Ramsey for
expressing his opinion and pointing out some very rel-
evant facts in this regard. Our generation can not sim-
ply sit back and be complacent. We need to move for-
ward so that we are not left behind. And so too do you,
Mr. Keeling.

Sincerely,
Ethan Jameson ‘06

WANTED: Summer Scholars Counselors
June 25 - July 26, 2003

Are you looking for a great chance to be a mentor and to
experience working with high school students while staying
at W&L for the month of July? The Washington and Lee
Summer Scholars Program is an exciting four week aca-
demic program for approximately 150 rising high school
seniors. We are looking for responsible students to help
guide participants and to plan extracurricular activities such
as talent shows, lip synchs, weekend hikes, trips to Goshen
and more.

For information about the position please contact Dr. Mimi
Milner Elrod at 458-8727. You may pick up an application
from Jennifer Lotts (458-8722) in the Summer Scholars
Office located in the Hill House.

The deadline for turning in applications is February 28,
2003.

 

PAGE 6

Stonewall Jackson House

BY HAYNES KING
rRAvEL CORRESPONDENT

You have probably passed our next travel attraction a
hundred times while walking to and from Davidson Park,
but W&L students often overlook one of the most
important historical aspects of Lexington. The Stonewall
Jackson house is located on Washington Street just up
from the Visitor’s Center, and if you have not visited, you’re
deﬁnitely missing out on an important piece of local history
and culture.

Although it is not nearly so spectacular a residence
as Jefferson’s own creation and home, Monticello, this
three-story brick house is the only home that Jackson
ever owned. After he graduated from West Point Military
Academy and served in the Mexican War, Jackson moved
here to Lexington, Virginia to teach at VMI. With his second
wife, he purchased this residence. I’m no expert on
Jackson’s life or military history, but the house and tour
present a wonderful representation of Jackson’s life prior
to serving in the Confederate Army.

He left this home to gain his stature as a great general
in the beginning of the war. Jackson was mortally wounded
by friendly fire when one of his men ﬁred and did not see
Jackson ahead of him, accidentally killing one of the
South’s greatest generals.

Not only does admission to the house include a

guided tour, but it also presents to the visitors a
seasonally changing feature topic downstairs. At the
time that I toured the house, the attraction discussed the
different uniforms of General J ackson. However, by the
end of February, the house will feature the original quilts
of the Jackson house.

If you are planning on staying here in the Lexington
area during the summer, the Jackson house hires
students to help give tours during the peak summer
tourist hours of the week and weekend. The staff is
extremely friendly and enthusiastic, and they obviously
enjoy what they do. Unfortunately, they are quite
disappointed in the small number of both W&L and
VMI students that visit the house, and hope more will
not pass up the opportunity to tour this historical spot.
To go to school here for four years and never visit the
house would be a disappointment, and you would be
missing out on one of the treasures of Historic
Lexington. J eb and I give the Stonewall Jackson House,
its tour and the nearby cemetery in which Jackson is
buried (deﬁnitely worth a trip down Main Street) four
out of ﬁve tridents.

Haynes & Jeb give Stonewall Jackson House 4 of 5 Tridents.

 

 

Next week, Haynes and J eb will leave Lexington
to see some of the sights of the surrounding area.

Hall divided

TIII: RlNt}~TlEM PHI

RTS

  

CATHERINE ccui
ARTS 8: LIFE EDITOR

EMAIL ouYc@wLu.EDg

LIFE

 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2005

proves deserving of student attention,

Jm 7beRing4umPbi

AN AMERICAN ICON: Stonewall Jackson House is located On Washington Street in downtown Lexington. Jackson is one of the most acclaimed figures On the campus of
Our illustrious next—dOor neighbor, the Virginia Military Institute, where he served as a professor. The house is a historical gem and is often, unfortunately, overlooked
by students from both campuses here in Lexington. It does, however, attract numerous tourists and historical buffs each year in search of American cultural enrichment. y

cannot stand

Every September, incoming
freshmen arrive on that ﬁrst day of
orientation week, excited about the
new experiences facing them. Over
the course of that ﬁrst week, freshmen
go to meals, meetings, and parties with
their new good friends — their
hallmates. Hall bonding is inevitable;
whether it’s with a roommate or

elitism that has characterized the
Greek system in the past is
noticeably fading away, but
fraternity and sorority stereotypes
are still strong enough to affect our
perceptions. Think about it - when
you identify an individual at this
school, that person’s Greek status
is an inseparable part of their

someone two doors identification.
down, you are bound ~-- “W V ~~~~~~~~ -- Here’s an example:
to developafriendship, ABSOLUTE FRATLORD “Who’s Kerry
simply by living with TIM SMITH ‘O4 Kellogg? I hear
people in close contact. “W” e ’ s the
So for that entire ﬁrst term, though coolest!”...“Oh, he’s a junior

you will certainly make new friends in
class, on sports teams or at parties,
you are closest to the people on your
hall.

Then comes Christmas Break.
Then comes Rush Week. And as I’ve
written in my previous articles, Rush
Week changes everything. For those
who join Greek organizations, Rush
Week creates an entirely new group
for you to spend time with: your
pledge brothers and sisters. Part of
the idea behind pledgeship is to
foster a bond between the new
pledge classes — thus, many
fraternities require their pledges to
at least eat together or walk with each
other on the Hill. These intentions
are good, but with all the time
pledges spend doing frat stuff, some
personal relationships are bound to
suffer. Hall friendships are often the
ﬁrst to go.

There is no way to pinpoint
exactly why these friendships fade.
The most practical reason is this
previously mentioned problem of time.
It’s tough to hang out with your
hallmates if you spend all your time
with your pledge class and new
fraternity brothers. But what if we
ignore the time issue completely?
There might be other less obvious
reasons for the demise of hall
friendships. L

Stereotypes are almost certainly
involved. Thankfully, the social

member of X

PIKA.” Sometimes it seems like we
are identiﬁed by our Greek status
first, and then by our personality
second. If this
is the case, then

without a second thought. Girls
usually place more importance in
their previous friendships. That’s
just because they’re girls I guess.
During my ﬁrst week at W&L, I
went to parties with Mike Denbow,
Luke Williams, and David Bode.
Along with Andrew Bahl, Davis
Rust, & Chris Stanek, we
represented the Gilliam Dungeon as
perhaps the most random group of
people ever. The term went on and
everyone inevitably followed his
own interests. I, of course, was an
intense Scrabble lover; Denbow and
Bode did basketball; Stainer and
Rust did LAX stuff I guess; Bahl
had football, and Luke did whatever
is it was that Luke liked to do (no
one really cared

how could to ask too
. . . THERE Is NO WAY TO

joining a house much...). By the
not affect PINPOINT EXACTLY “I” end of Rush
s o In e o n e ’ s THESE FRIENDSHIPS FADE. Week, we had a
perceptions? THE MOST PRACTICAL Lambda Chi, a
After Rush REASON IS THE PROBLEM OF KA’ three Pi”
Week, every TIME BUT WHATIFWE Kaps, one Sig
thing starts over ' Ep and one SAE.
again. All IGNORE THE TIME ISSUE Then, of
relationships COMPLETELY? THERE c o u r s e ,

continue or
cease with the
knowledge that
you are a new

fraternity or

sorority. Ideally,

people would never be that shallow,
but hey, this is Washington & Lee
(“we’re not snobs, we’re just better
than youl”).

Of course, not all halls are
completely fragmented. Often,
entire sections ofa hall go to one
house — these friends remain
tight, but are isolated in their own
little bubble within the dorm.
Then there is the natural guy
versus girl comparison — both
genders suffer from hall
fragmentation, but guys are
usually content to let it happen

MIGHT BE OTHER LESS
OBVIOUS REASONS FOR THE
DEMISE OF HALL
FRIENDSHIPS.

e v e r y t h i n g
c h a n g e d .
Denbow is still
the man. Luke
always cracks
me up in the
Coop, and now
he’s re-enrolled, thank goodness. I’ll
see the other 5 guys around on the
Hill, exchange greetings, but that’s
about it. The memories are still fresh.
Davis and the ﬁre extinguisher. Luke
and his waxed dreadlocks and the
dollar bills left in my fridge. Denbow
getting his minutes. And just Bahl
being himself. The Gilliam Dungeon
was the place to be, without a doubt.
But after pledgeship began, the hall
became secondary to our new lives
as pledges. And in the spirit of
Vonnegut coming to Lex Vegas. . . .so

it goes.

Film Society plans winter cinematic selections

FROM STAFF REPORTS

The Washington and Lee Film Society will present
the quirky and comic “Punch—Drunk Love” (USA,
2002), directed by Paul Thomas Anderson.

Screenings will be on Friday and Saturday,
February 7 and 8, at 7:30 PM in the Troubadour Cinema.
There is no charge for admission, although
contributions are welcome. This ﬁlm is in English and
is rated “R” for very strong language.

Adam Sandler for Valentine’s Day? Oﬂicially billed
as a romantic comedy, this ﬁlm might be less complex
than Anderson’s previous Boogie Nights and
Magnolia, yet it still reﬂects the ﬁlmmaker’s creativity
and love of the medium. Sandler retains some of his
angry-young—doofus persona, but here his love affair
with Lena (played by the luminous Emily Watson) is
perfectly believable and even charming.

A.O. Scott wrote in the New York Times that “No

mere plot summary can do justice to the wild, sweet it
pleasures of Punch—Drunk Love...poetry is perhaps
the best way to think about Mr. Anderson’s suave,
exuberant balance of free-form inspiration and formal
control. In this, his fourth feature, he is still very much
a movie-mad adolescent, sprinkling his work with
gleeful allusions and playful rip-offs of whatever strikes
his fancy.”

The Film Society has also released a list of the

ﬁlms to be shown for the remainder of Winter Term. All I

of these movies will be shown at the Troubador Cinema
and, as always, are free of charge. On February 28 and
March 1, the 2000 South Korean ﬁlm “Chunhyang”,
which was directed by Kwon-taek Im, will be shown.

OH THE WEATHER OUTSIDE IS FRIGHTFUL

RUNNING BUDDIES: The cold and blustery weather does not deter Professor Holt Merchant and
Dean David Howison from running around Washington and L_ee’s track together each afternoon.

On March 14 and 15, the 2002 US ﬁlm “Bowling for '
Colombine” directed by Michael Moore will be
presented. On March 21 and 22, the 2002 US ﬁlm
“Frida”, directed by Julie Taymor, will be shown. All of
these ﬁlms are rated “R”. yr
)\
1'
V
E)‘
3
V
I JR BRooKs/ THE RING-TUM l’III
.3‘

 

 

    
 

ERINJUIIIIS
'3 SPORTS EDITOR
EMAIL: JLHIUSE@WLU.F.DU

'E‘léf. litre;-”ttILIi lilill

MONDAY, FEBRIIARY 5, 2005

‘Generals rack up

PORT

ore losses

 

 

COl)YG.»\BBORl)/ 7beRing—tumPbi

,' Hoop. Senior captain Steve Hostetter goes up for a layup against Bridgewater during last Wednesdays home game.

BY ALLISON PERRY
SPORTS \‘("RlTER

i, The Washington and Lee men’s
basketball team added two more
losses to their record this week in
close games. The Generals fell to
McDaniel, 66-69, on Tuesday and

‘to Bridgewater, 64-66 on Wednes-
day.

McDaniel guard Bryant Dull
helped to pull out the win with a shot

,from three-point range with 11 sec-
onds left.

The Generals were leading at the
half, 42-37, with 58.3 percent shoot-
ing, but dropped to 28.6 percent in

j ' the second half.
v~ Senior captain Scott Hetterrnann
posted a season and game high of 23
points and led W&L with 10.re-

‘bounds. _

Junior captain Michael Denbow
scored a career-high 13 points.

' The’Generals’ ‘23”‘tur’n‘overs‘

were a problem, overshadowing
their 40-28 lead in rebounds. The
non-conference loss dropped
W&L in overall standings to 5-
11.

The Bridgewater Eagles handed
W&L another ODAC loss Wednes-
day night in Warner Center. With 1.9
« seconds left to go in the game, sopho-

4

7

 

more guard Ricky Easterling sank two
free throws.

The Eagles opened a 29-23 lead
going into the half, but the Generals
mounted a comeback late in the sec-
ond half. Denbow tied the game up
with a lay-up after making a steal at
0:34 left in the game. He snagged a
total of ﬁve steals in the game.

“I thought our inside game
struggled a little bit, and that was be-
cause David Will had been coming off
a sickness,” Denbow said. “Overall it
was a ﬁne game. They made shots.
We made shots, and they just made
two more free throws in the end.”

W&L sophomore guard Ian McClure
led the team with 1 8 points by hitting 6-of-
9 from behind the three-point arc.

Junior forward Hamill Jones
added 13 points, and sophomore
guard Mike Stuart totaled 10 points.

The Generals cut down on turn-
overs with a season-low of twelve for

" the night.’ The team has*'also been

working on shooting.

“We’ve been in lots of games this
year, and we go ﬁat a little bit offen-
sively,” W&L head coach Jeff Lafave
said. “Just getting extra shots, that’s
probably what we’ve been trying to
work on the most.”

Denbow attributed some of the
strengths for the team to the crowd in

Wednesday night’s close game.

“The number one thing was that
the crowd was awesome,” Denbow
said. “It was the best crowd I’ve ever
played for here at W&L.”

Bridgewater has now won ﬁve
straight games over W&L. The win
puts the Eagles at 1 1-6 overall, 5-5 in
the ODAC.

The Generals hope to snap the
losing streak with the Eagles when
they meet them again on Feb. 18.

W&L lost 57-47 on the road
Saturday when they played in
Roanoke. The Generals lost to the
Maroons 53-65 at home on Jan.
11.

Lafave had several things for the
team to work on in preparation for
Saturday’s game with Roanoke.

“They’re a very big team, so
we’ve got to try to rebound better
than we did the first game,” Lafave
said. “We’ve got to try to rebound

the ball and get back in transition de- '

fense. Those are the things that
we’ve always had to do against
Roanoke.”

The Generals are now 1 1-8 over-.
all and 8-4 in the ODAC. They play
Emory and Henry on Wednesday to
try and break their seven game losing
streak. The conference match-up will
be at 7:00 p.m. in Emory.

PAGE 7

Women’s basketball
falls to EMU, Roanoke

BY JOHN HYIAND
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee
women’s basketball team lost 61-46
to ODAC foe Eastern Mennonite last
Tuesday night at home. The loss
dropped the Generals’ record to 2-13,
2-1 1 ODAC while the win improved
Eastern Mennonite’s record to 13-4,
8-4 ODAC. This game, however, was
closer than the score indicated.

It was the second time the two
teams had squared off this season.
The ﬁrst meeting ending in a 69-47
Eastern Mennonite victory. ,

This time, Generals led the Roy-
als 21-20 at the half, in a period that
featured tenacious, physical defense
from both teams with neither team
shooting above 30% from the ﬂoor.

Freshman guard Louisa Feve
spurred on the Generals, scoring 7 of
her 9 points towards the end of the
first half.

The Generals were only out-re-
bounded 37-36 despite facing an East-
ern Mennonite team that held a sig-
niﬁcant size advantage. At times EMU
was able to boast a front line consist-
ing of three players over 6 feet.

The Generals’ ability to stay
competitive on the boards could be
largely attributed to their hustle and
the play of senior center and Co—cap-

tain Austin Calhoun, who, despite
standing only 5-1 I, managed to grab
11 rebounds. The turnover battle
was also close, with each team com-
mitting 17.

The Royals, however,
opened the second half on a 19-8
run and the Generals were never
able to recover. To make matters
worse, senior forward and Co—cap-
tain Elizabeth Igo leﬁ the game with
a left knee injury during the run at
the 1 1 :38 mark and did not return.

She remains sidelined indeﬁ-
nitely. Igo ﬁnished the game with 6
points and 3 rebounds.

The Royals’ depth was the dif-
ference in the second half. 1 1 play-
ers saw action for the Royals while
only 7 players for W&L saw signiﬁ-
cant playing time. This advantage
enabled the Royals to implement a
full court press early in the second
half that confounded the Generals,
leading to a number of easy bas-
kets for the Royals.

The Royals shot 54% from the
ﬂoor in the second half and 42% for
the game. A number of those easy
baskets were scored by freshman
guard Stephanie Matthews who ﬁn-
ished the game with 18 points on 8
of 13 shooting.

The Generals, on the other
hand, not only struggled with the

press but also with the strong zone
defense utilized by the Royals.

The Generals, hoever, shot only
27% from the ﬂoor, including just 17%
from 3-point range. Nevertheless,
strong efforts for the Generals came
from sophomore guard Bethany
Dannelly who ﬁnished the game with
12 points, 7 rebounds and 2 assists
and junior forward Sarah Michaels
who contributed 10 points, 4 re-
bounds and 4 steals.

On Friday night, the Generals
played another conference opponent,
Roanoke College, on the road. The
Generals played a tight ﬁrst half, trail-
ing only 25-22 at halﬁime.

Once again, however, the Gener-
als fell victim to a deeper team and
allowed the Maroons to reel off a 20-
0 run to begin the second half and
cruise to a 67-49 victory. The Gener-
als committed 25 turnovers for the
game andallowed Roanoke to shoot
50% from the ﬂoor in the second half.

The Generals were led by the tan-
dem ofDannelly and Michaels. Dannelly
contributed 14 points, 4 rebounds and 4
assists while Michaels scored ateamhigh
16 points and added 8 rebounds.

W&L next faces ODAC base-
ment dweller Randolph-Macon
Women’s College at home on
Wednesday, Feb. 5; game time is
scheduled for 7 p.m.

BASKETBALL PROMOTIONS

Attend the women’s basketball game vs. Guilford on
Fri., Feb. 7 at 7:00 pm and enter a free drawing for
two tickets to Fancy Dress or attend the men’s bas-
ketball game vs. Hampden-Sydney on Sat., Feb. 8 at
3:00pm which is to be broadcast o_nWDRL-TV’ in
Roanoke. Enter a free drawing to win two tickets to
Fancy Dress, dinner for two at a Lexington restau-
rant or free books for the spring term compliments of

the athletic department.

COURITSY LYNN SYMANSKY
1”“ ‘ W ' “W ""‘ ‘V’ 8" «W ‘dent Lynn Symansky jumps her horse NO It Tissant during a show. Symansky and her horse will be travelling all spring to train with the national team.

‘W&L Eqestrian Symsky nad naional riding team

BY ERIN JULIUS
SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee sophomore
Lynn Symansky was named as an al-
ternate to the United States Eques-
trian Team’s 2003 Winter Eventing
Training list on Jan. 17.

Symansky will be training with
three of Equestrian’s most successful
trainers: Capt. Mark Phillips, Sandy
Phillips and George Morris. Eighteen
people were chosen to be on the team.

Symansky will be working with
the trainers prior to the spring com-
petition season. By Washington and
Lee’s Spring break, Symansky will be
through with the training and ready ‘
for competitions.

Equestrian competitions are com-
prised of three days of events: dres-
sage, cross-country and show-jumping.

The dressage event is -meant to
show the horse’s training by demon-
strating the its precision, smoothness,
suppleness and obedience.

Cross-country is designed to
demonstrate the horse’s endurance
and excellent physical condition.

The show-jumping event takes place
inajurnpingarenaandteststhestamina
and recovery oﬂ the horse after the ﬁrst
two grueling days of competition.

The US Equestrian team is in-
cludes both men and women, most of
whom are professional riders.

“Everyone else doing this is profes-
sional and it’s men and women,” said
Symansky, “they don’tgoto school. . .I’m
competingagainst40-year oldmen, which
makes it different from other sports.”

Symansky will be splitting her
time between W&L and Southern
Pines, North Carolina , where she is
training through March.

’ “My teachers and the faculty
have been really accommodating, but
it’s been tough,” she said, “I get up at
6 and am at the barn until 8 in the
evening, then I go back to the hotel
to do work until I pass out.”

Though balancing school and
riding is difﬁcult, Symansky doesn’t
plan to take any time away from her
education, “I thought about taking a
year off, but I really wanted to come
here and I was afraid that if I took time
off I wouldn’t have the drive to ﬁnish
my education,” she said.

Symansky said she, “rode at the
same level last fall,” and managed to
keep up with her school work.

Symansky hasn’t decided. what
she will do after school. She may ride
professionally, but, “you can’t rely on
riding if you’re not sponsored and
have a bunch of horses-—if your horse
gets hurt, you’re out.” Symansky is
majoring in business in order to leave
her options'open.

Symansky and her horse, No It
Tissant, will be judged in competi-
tions throughout the Spring and in
selection trials at the end of the spring
season. Around the barn, No It
Tissant is known as Fergus.

Symansky has a chance of eam-
ing a place in the World Equestrian
Games in the fall.

“The World Equestrian Games are
really more important than the Olym-
pics within the sport,” she said.

Next spring, Symansky will be
going through selection trials that
may land her a spot on the 2004 Olym-
pic Equestrian team.

Symansky, who is from Vienna,
Virginia, has been riding since she was
4 and participating in low-level com-
petition since she was 5.

“I started because my parents
had horses. . .basically, I was born into
it,” she said.

“I’ve been competing at the this
level since I was a junior is high
school,” she said.

The three most important competi-
tions that Symansky will be competing

‘in this spring are at Morven Park in

Leesburg, Virginia, Southern Pines in
North Carolina and Pine Top in Georgia.

 

PAGE 8

   

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2003



Individualrunners
compete at Vl\/II meet

BY MARY CHRISTOPHER
SPORTS WRITER

Not far from the white columns
of Washington and Lee lies “The Pit”
of VMI. “The Pit” is the indoor track
facility of VMI, and is where the Gen-
erals headed this weekend to strut
their stuff on the track.

No team scores were kept during
this meetAonly individual efforts
were recorded.

Thrower Audrey Walker com-
peted early Friday evening in the shot
put. Her throw of 30’05 placed her
high among competitors from schools
such as Elon, Bridgewater, Liberty,
Virginia State, Lynchburg, and, of
course, VMI. Also on Friday, Jessica
Remmert and Samantha Snabes com-
peted in the 3000m. Both girls ran ex-
tremely well and remarked, “we felt
very comfortable running the event”.

On Saturday, the track stars were
ready to roll again with many events
scheduled for them. Captain Meredith
Walker competed in the 200 In dash
with a ﬁnishing time of 30.06 along
with Freshman Amy Bacastow, who
ran a hard 32.71. Amy also ran the
55m in a time of 9’26. In the Long
Jump Meredith struck again with an
impressive l5’05 distance and, that
wasn’t all for Meredith, who then ran
the 400m dash in l’06’98. With a
height of 4’l0, Angel Daniels truly
represented her team with this excel-
lent high jump performance.

Then there was the mile run,
where W & L dominated in number of
competitors. Typically, at college
meets, the 1500 is run, but that wasn’t

the case at VMI and it was no prob-
lem for the runners.

After running a hard 3000m the
day before, Samantha and Jessica
both ran solid miles in 6:35.60 and
6:29.60. Liz Twentyman, Erin Johnson,
and Mary Christopher also ran the
milewithtimesof6:2l.13,6:11.21,and
5:55.97. For the men, Andrew Johnson
shined with his time of 4:48.39. The
last race of the day for the Generals
was the 800m dash which, like all
events, is extremely difficult.

Nonetheless, runners Erin
Johnson, Mary Christopher, and Liz
Twentyman stuck it out with times of
2:45.24, 2:43.64, and 2:43.21. The race
was close, with majority of the times
varying between only a few seconds
or even microseconds but the 3 girls
did well under the pressure.

Coach Tucker was nothing but
enthusiastic during the course of the
meet, eager and anxious to cheer on
all his runners. With a huge smile
upon his face, Tucker remarked, “I am
so pleased with the team. There is so
much improving and competitiveness,
it’s just greatl”.

Taking into consideration the dif-
ficulty of running on the
banked(slanted) not so elite track,
Captain Erin Johnson felt that “we
held our own against the D-1 teams”.
She, like Coach Tucker, realized that
“in just one week there is a lot of im-
provement”. So, although it was a

I long weekend for the men and women,

the strong ﬁnishes made their time well
spent, and leave the Generals antici-
pating their next race at Christopher
Newport this F riday-Saturday.

FROM STAFF REPORTS

breaststroke.

Washington and Lee’s men’s and women’s
swimming team fell to Johns Hopkins Saturday in
a meet in Baltimore, Maryland. Johns Hopkins’s
men’s team defeated W&L ‘I05-77 while the
women’s team (5-7) won 99-78. Michael Lee, ’05,
and Clark Barrineau, ’06, paced the General’s men
with a win in the 200-meter breast stroke event
and the 500-meter free event. Mandi Kimble, ’04,
and Tasia Fisher, ’05, led the women. Kimble won
the 200 backstroke while Fisher won the 200

Later that day, both the men’s and women’s
teams beat Marymount. The men (5-6) defeated
Marymount 105-67 while the women (9-4) took a
125.5-5915 victory. Zach Fake, ’03, Patrick Frank-

furt, ’03, Jonathan James, ’04, and Bariineau, ’06,
all took a victory as the Generals won the

Back events.

freestyle events. Drew Catanese, "04, won the
100 Fly, Eric Ritter, ’04, won the 100 back, Chris
Colby, ’05, won the 200 Individual Medley.

For the women’s team, Blair Huffman, ’03,
won three races to lead the Generals. She won
the 200 Individual Medley, 100 Fly, and 500 Free.
Kelli Austin, ‘O3, and Kristine Holda, ’06, both
won two events. Autsin won the 50-and 100-
freestyle while Holda won the 200 Free and 100

The men will return to the pool on Thursday

when they compete in the Southern States Cham-
pionships at Radford University. The women will
return to action on Friday, Feb. 21, when they
compete for the ODAC Championship.

Women’s swimming wins‘ away

Wrestling loses away

Washington and Lee’s wrestling team fell,
35-13 to Muhlenberg in a Centennial Conference
meet on Saturday in Allentown, Pennsylvania.
The loss dropped the Generals’ record to 2-9 (0-
5 in the Conference). Alex Poor, ’03, BrianAvello,
’05 and Michael Bennett, ’04, led the team, as
the trio was responsible for all 13 of the team’s
points. Poor, at 165, won 14-1 against Chris
Gibson while Avello at 174 beat Cardinal Greg
Jacobs, 13-6. Bennett, wrestling at 197, won by
forfeit.

The Generas’s next competition is Sat-
urday, when they travel to Johns Hopkins
for a quadrangular. Matches will begin at
12 p.m.

.Wll

lI .

New! .

Twonewwmjlutingserviees in thelibrazyt  

I     ‘Questions about Software?
  Questions about tlIeLabs?
    ‘Questions about Wireless?

-‘slopllylllenell HelIIDeslIstatIonLeyburnLibIary 

The Ileskisloeatedfin the reference circle andisopen I        R
from 8:00 to 11:00 p.111. Sunday through Thursday   

Needea quiltplattlotltlS0llIe_ctlIIIpIltlIIg?i-V"     

Step by the new computing lab in Leybum Library  
The lab is loeated_on the third level IIfLeylIIIrII 301 and is open
* from 8:00 am. l0—l2!llll_tt.lll. everyday. . _

ave

.l%a§:aEI- 

  
, t. i:t7te‘%3 €33. 
    upc

23.0 at; 

  
 

 
   

..}i'eéae



tigliiiafijll. Ia

  

    
   
 
  
     

    
 
    

 

Commission advises 

changes to Ti le IX

BY JoN BREECE
CAVALIER DAILY (U. VIRGINIA)

( U - W I R E )
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. - The
future of Title IX, a landmark
piece of legislation that attempts
to achieve gender equality in col-
legiate sports, will be evaluated

1 this week in Washington, D.C.

More than 30 years after the
initial passage of Title IX became
a law, the Commission on Oppor-
tunity in Athletics is finalizing its
recommendations to the Bush ad-
ministration on how to reform the
1972 law.

Title IX prohibits schools re-
ceiving federal aid from sexual
discrimination in their academic
and athletic programs.

,The proposals being consid-
ered would weaken Title IX’s com-
pliance requirement. Under one
recommendation, athletic direc-
tors would be allowed to decrease
current funding for female athletic
scholarships although women, on
average, constitute a majority on
campuses nationwide

Praised by some as increas-
ing athletic opportunities for
women and condemned by others
as leading smaller men’s programs
to the chopping block, Title IX is
a lightning rod in both high
school and collegiate athletics.

The University of Virginia,
however, has not experienced
problems typical at other schools.
“The University has been on the
forefront of Title IX and provid-
ing opportunities for women’s
sports while not dropping men’s
sports which other schools have
had to do,” said Mark Fletcher, a
University associate athletic di-
rector.

The law stipulates that
schools must allot their scholar-
ships according to the ratio of
enrolled students, meet the
“needs and interests” of its stu-
dent body or show a history of
expanding athletic opportunities
for the “underrepresented sex.”

According to the
University’s 2002 Equity in Ath-
letics Disclosure Act Information
filing, women’s programs con-

sume 34.8 percent of operating
costs and women athletes only
make up 43.8 percent of the stu-
dent-athlete population. Football
and men’s basketball take up 67.8
percent ofthe men’s and 44.3 per-
cent of the total operating costs.

University Athletic director
Craig Littlepage said these expen-

ditures “match our participation .

rates and student-athlete popula-
tion.” Littlepage also noted that
the University has expanded
scholarships, offices, facilities
and coaching positions for
women’s sports.

The University added
women’s rowing in 1995 and
women’s golf in 2001. “Women

1*

1

V

are also hurt because, rather than I

adding women’s programs, ath-
letic directors are only cutting
men’s programs to comply with
the standard,” University men’s
wrestling Coach Lenny Bernstein
said. He added that the law is, in
effect, a quota whose basis can-
not be supported.

“The idea that there is the ‘

same degree of interest is ﬂawed,”
he said. “Right now, funding is
tied to a quota of how many men

and women are at the University. ,,

Let’s base it off of interest and

not some arbitrary quota.”
Despite the apparent success

of Title IX at the University, other

Virginia schools, particularly the 7‘

predominantly female James
Madison University, has been
more heavily affected by the leg-
islation. .

In April 2000, the father ofa
JMU softball player complained
to the Office of Civil Rights that
his daughter’s club softball team,

1

despite promises by the school,¥

had not been elevated to a fully-
funded university athletic pro-
gram.

The school subsequently up-
graded the program at the expense
of other men’s and women’s
sports. Jane Mann, the coach of
the University’s new women’s
golfteam, who was unable to par-
ticipate in either high school or
college athletics, said Title IX has
done a “great deal for sports in
general” and is vital in prevent-
ing discrimination in sports.

 

Amanda Geiger never saw the ;l:reIeIl<.dIi~AeI*;

2

 

     

0..c..a....mI-‘M

 
 

Yim.rl?‘m.-emf Scziaziafnr (.?ui!e;ge F‘murmé3-Eng.
338-923 -323 8 - WwW.CaI”t1ptiSI%t1f3(IE&iSersttﬁlm

  

SENIORS:

CHECK ouT A GREAT SUMMER JOB
IN THE MEDICINE Bow MOUNTAINS

OF SOUTHERN WYOMING.

WWW.COOLWORKS.COM/ABARA HAS FULL
INFORMATION ABOUT THE A BAR A GUEST ,
RANCH. THE MANAGER WILL BE ON CAMPUS

INTERVIEWING ON FEBRUARY 5. EMAIL Boa
HowE AT ABARARANCH@AOL.COM To SET UP AN 4,
INTERVIEW OR ASK QUESTIONS. 1

   
 

)1
mm. name Lot ram m-in bmnk. 
N
  ,,
ﬁt just 3 hours!
'CC|llF.'§_€‘ ‘l‘l.tl"1IZliz'1l’5-5=.?l‘=E§ §'l".=:«".‘l|ZlE‘ Sample, Sake add Fri:-9..
 r’-.m.EsaIg- Imtimts  No  no names. Just 
Fumimistng  we ftlhsg qidakly, Cat with the pmgrmm Ila: milk: ,4

 

