Q

A

C

if
Y

 

*1

 

.Naborskicks

offthird reading
cam ' n

BY KATIE HOWELL
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Seventeen percent of Rockbridge
County residents read at the lowest
literacy level.

For the third year, Washington
and Lee students plan to change this
statistic by tackling illiteracy in the
county at the elementary school level.

“W&L students thought it would
be a great way to attack illiteracy
through the children,” Nabor’s Ser-
vice League Literacy Campaign co-
chair Kyle Meehan said. “If we can
excite children about reading at an

A, 1 early age, they will continue to irn—

prove this skill as they grow up.”

The literacy campaign, spon-
sored by W&L’s service organization,
Nabor’s Service League, consists of
a book drive, adopt-a-classroom pro-
gram, Saturday’s at the Library, a book
cover contest and a children’s’ book
writing contest.

“(The beneﬁts of the campaign
are) to promote literacy amongst el-
ementary children, to connect the
University with the greater
Rockbridge Area and form a lasting
relationship with the classes and el-
ementary schools,” said Elizabeth
King, literacy campaign publicity
chair. “New books will be given to
every kindergartener, (and it’s) a great
opportunity for W&L students inter-
ested in teaching or just children in
general.”

Statistics show 21-23 percent of
adults in America read at the lowest
literacy level while 17 percent of
Rockbridge County adults read at this
level. King said people at this level
are not completely literate but cannot
perform simple reading tasks like to-
taling a deposit slip, locating the time
of a meeting on a form or identifying
information in a short news article.

“W&L students want to help this
community improve its literacy lev-
els,” Meehan said. “We saw the best
way to do this was to start with the
children—the new readers in the
county.”

Communities across the nation
are taking steps similar to W&L’s lit-
eracy campaign.

Carlos Ossio, a business gradu-
ate student at the University of Michi-
gan, noted the importance of produc-

ing literate children in a community.
He said, “Literacy is important to ev-
ery citizen in the community whether
they can read or not.” Ossio was an
intern at the Literacy Council in Ox-

’ ford, Miss. this summer. “This literacy
issue is paramount to any community
from the business point-of-view. The

please see LITERACY, Page 2

 

.3

 

Ll

PHI

VoLuMECV,No.XVll
MONDAYJANUARY 20,2003

Tie rirnieni wire of Wnrizipiori and In Urrirerrin time 7897 CD Orr/irie oi: 11>/92121//ir.niir

W&L celebrates campus leaders, founders

Author David McC Ilough speaks, intiated at Omicron Delta Kappa /Founders’ Day Convocation

as an honorary
initiate.

The Omi-
cron Delta Kappa
leadership soci-
ety is a national
honor society
that rewards stu-
dents’ achieve-
ments both in
school and in the
community.

The event
took place in a
crowded Lee
Chapel, where
latecomers were
told they could
hear the
s p e e c h e s
broadcast at
Northen Audi-
torium if there
was not any
seating left in
the chapel.

President
Thomas Burish
welcomed the
audience to
Washington
and Lee and Lee
Chapel, fol-
lowed by Act-
ing University
Chaplain Tho-
mas Litzenburg,
Jr.’s invocation.
After a musical
selection by
The University
Chamber Sing-
ers, featured
s p e a k e r
McCullough
gave a speech
entitled “Lega-
cies of the
Founding Fa-
thers,” in which
he spoke exten-

mores EYJEE BROOKS / T/ie Rngim P/ii
FOUNDING FATHERS. Above: A full Lee Chapel listened to author and P.B.S. host David McCullough as he spoke at the
Founders’ Day Convocation. Inset: McCullough is a noted author and Pulitzer Prize winner. Below: Members of the
Class of 2003 are initated during the Convocation.

BY Km: Wxss
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

David McCullough, the au-
thor of a bestselling biography of
John Adams, and host ofthe PBS
show “The American Experience,”
was the featured speaker at
Friday’s Founders’ Day/Omicron
Delta Kappa Convocation, as well

9

cation.’ He also noted the im-
portance of teaching values in
institutions such as Washington
and Lee, and quoted John
Adams when he said that the
purpose of education at such an
institution is to be both “a good
man and a useful citizen.”
McCullough finished his ‘speech
saying that happiness comes

through educa-

sively about George Washington
and John Adams. McCullough
spoke of the imperfections of
our founders and praised their
ability to come together despite
their differences. McCullough
also emphasized the importance
our Founding Fathers put on
education, saying that “oppor-
tunity and the right to think for
oneself. . .had to come from edu-

tion, and that

an-7’ODKINmAT53 education and

“a knowledge

LA SCH 0. f

C ' l\/t‘iVhellOl(3)<Ii d hmy"'g°“e’m
“me C C We“ optimism.”
 Clark BIOWII Following his
MargaretAgnesChipowsky Speech,
Brian Paul Hudak Mfcuﬁlough I:
Joshua Danieljones fﬁlgve fvsrtlinol;
Jamce R- Lyon from the audi-

Rebecca Lynn Miles ence_

Edmound P Power MCCu11011gh
EriCJOb seese has won two
Pulitzer Prizes

d ' th t -

UNDERGRADUATE Cmss or 2;,  0:326
2003 National Book

George   award and the
KathrynLeighFrusti 1§r?n°iST11’1aIh11<¥nan
Kathleen Ann Gibson .112?" e Sm’

_ man is lcnown for
Allison Michelle Gruenwald his books on
AndrewBiianHirsekorn Presidents
Ibraiz Yakub lmani Truman and
Christopher Martinjordan Adams’ and has
. lectured around

Skye Spencer Justice the country, in-
Jane Elizabeth Ledlie cluding the
Ann Bailey Lynn White House.
Mary Carol Mazza Mf>C11110“8h Te-
Michael Thomas Morrow _°e}t‘i'et‘i1 h‘?n:’r:y
im a onmo e

F“ha“.Sy°d Musmfa ODK leadership
Marl’ Ehzabeth Saxton society, along
Jennifer Elizabeth Thomas with Russell W.
Chambliss, a 1974

UNDERGRADUATE CLASS OF g“‘d‘?a‘e °f
Washington and

2004 L .

ee, and Janine

Peter Nelson Dean M. Hathom, the
Natalie Gwen Diebel Assistant Direc-
  Gfeen tor of Athletics
Matthew Buchan McDermott 33d , tlhe
Kenneth Charles Schaefer °“‘e” S a‘
_ crosse coach at

Kate Pauline Talbert Washington and

Lee.
Following

McCullough’s speech were some
brief words from William G Packard
III, who will graduate Washington
and Lee in 2003 and is the president
of the Omicron Delta Kappa Circle,
and then the Tapping of the Ini-
tiates. Omicron Delta Kappa was
founded at Washington and Lee
University in 1914 as the Alpha Circle
and was formed to promote aca-
demic integrity.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
  

 

I’I"s GETTING HOT IN HERE. Mike Reynolds ‘02 andjoe Cressaty

‘O2 perform as freshmen in 1999’s LipSynch.

BY KATIE HOWELL
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Freshmen prepare to dress strangely and sing along
to their favorite songs in order to provide over three tons
of food to local food shelters.

This year’s Students Against Rockbridge Area Hun-
ger (S.A.R.A.H.) LipSynch will be Friday, January 24, in
the Student Activities Pavilion. Co-chairs and advisors
plan to raise money for the hunger group by charging
entrance fees for acts and admission fees for the audi-
ence.

“Traditionally, LipSynchs have been well-at-
tended,” said sophomore student chairman Thomas
Worthy. “I look forward to just as big a success as in
the past.”

Worthy said the ﬁrst recorded S.A.R.A.H. LipSynch
was in 1985. He said the perfonnances have always been a
success.

‘‘In 1989, Fiji took their act all the way to an MTV
competition and won a car,” Worthy said.

The student chairmen said usually each frater-
nity pledge class performs one act and each sorority
new member class performs three or four acts.
S.A.R.A.H. charges each act a $100 entrance fee. All
the proceeds go towards buying canned foods for
the Lexington, Natural Bridge and Glasgow hunger
shelters.

Freshmen prepare LipSynch acts to aid hungry

“Every bit of the money including the entrance fees
and the $10 admission fee raised go to dining services,
who in turn purchase canned goods for the hunger shel-
ters.”

The student chairmen chose to raise the admis-
sion fee this year to $10 from last year’s five-dollar fee
so more students could “swipe it home” on their Uni-
versity cards at the door. In return, food and drinks
will be provided at the Pavilion during the perfor-
mances.

Dean of Freshmen Dawn Watkins, history professor
Ted Delaney, Elizabeth Holleman Brown in the Develop-
ment Office, Trey Packard ’03 and assistant lacrosse
coach Ricky Matthews will judge the performances and
choose winners. The prizes will be cash and Fancy Dress
tickets.

“This event is a lot of ﬁin and it serves a good pur-
pose,” Worthy said.

Worthy’s other student chairmen are Wes
McRae ’03 and Ansel Sanders ’04. John Taffe, di-
rector of special events in the Alumni Office, ad-
vised the group. Worthy said a new student chair-
man is chosen each year from the freshman class.
McRae, Sanders and Worthy will choose McRae’s
successor after this year’s event is complete. The
group meets an hour each week starting spring term
to plan and discuss the details of the fundraising
event. '

Registrar releases
fall term grades

BY MEGAN Moncm
STAFF WRITER

As the fall term came to close, Washing-
ton and Lee University released grade point
average rankings for the Greek organizations,
independent students and the student body
as a whole. Some of the results are surpris-
ing. Women as a whole had an average G.P.A.
that was higher than their male counterparts,
and the highest G.P.A. on campus belonged
to the Pi Beta Phi sorority which averaged a
3.434. However, they were closely followed
by the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity which came in
with a 3.430 average. All of the sororities had
average G.P.A.s higher than both the all stu-
dent average and that of non-sorority mem-
bers. In the fraternities, Phi Kappa Phi, Sigma
Nu, Lambda Chi Alpha, Kappa Sigma and
Sigma Chi all had G.P.A.s higher than the all
student average, and all the fraternities with
the exception of Sigma Phi Epsilon, Phi Kappa
Sigma and Kappa Alpha had average GPAs
higher than those of non-fraternity male stu-
dents.

PAGE   

  

JAMR ii.  IN Llﬁﬂl-I‘r~.’
 3‘  

 mg, -. ;,,a.:.’

Service group plans to improve local literacy
levels at local elementary and secondary schools

LITERACY, from page 1

workplace in general has become more and more lit-
eracy-based. No community can have the luxury of un-
skilled, unleamed workers anymore. The literacy level of a
community says a lot about the competency of a commu-
nity, and a company will not come (to an area) if there is
not a pool of skilled workers. That will mean a loss of
money. This makes the literacy level of a community im-
portant to ‘every citizen.”

W&L’s literacy campaign will tackle these issues Jan.
20-Mar. l5 with their program entitled “Dream the Dream,
Read a Book.” Meehan expects over 200 students to par-
ticipate in the two—month long program.

One of the major activities that the campaign will cover
is a book drive. Students will collect new books through-
out the community to distribute one to each kindergartner
in the county. The campaign will also initiate an adopt-a-
classroom activity. Meehan said about 100 students will
adopt kindergarten—f1fth grade classrooms that they will

 

visit each week during the seven-week campaign. Each
week the student will work with the children on a different
literacy activity including poetry writing, short story writ-
ing, bookmark making and Shakespeare for Kids.

Some students will participate in Saturdays at the
Library for four Saturdays throughout the campaign. Stu-
dents will meet the children at the Rockbridge County
library for story time, crafts and lunch.

In addition to the elementary school activities, the
literacy campaign will also tackle literacy levels in the middle
and high schools of the county. Students will hold a book-
cover making contest. The winner’s design will be printed
into covers that will be used in all the schools next year. A
children’s’ book-writing contest will also be held at
Rockbridge County High School and Parry McCluer High
School. The campaign will award a prize to the winning
book and all the entries will be distributed to local elemen-
tary schools.

“W&L students are a great group to tackle the lit-
eracy level problems in the community because for the

most part we were all fortunate enough to have parents
who took us to the library, bought us books and read to us
as children,” Meehan said. “I’m not saying that everyone
in Rockbridge County has this problem, but W&L thought
that the problem needed more emphasis in the community.
We can teach these kids the things we learned as chil-
dren.”

Campaign co-chairs Meehan and senior Carroll Th-
ompson thought the campaign would work well due to the
past success of the Big Buddy program, another Nabor’s
Service League program that pairs W&L students with
Rockbridge County children with special needs.

Literacy campaign organizers encourage any inter-
ested students to become involved.

“W&L can only be instrumental in helping this com-
munity if the students are willing to work at this and make
it successful.”

Interested students should contact Nabors Service
League, Meehan or King for more information about be-
coming involved with the literacy campaign.

 
 
 
 

MONDAY. JANUARY 20, 2003

i This nraeeist was a gift Amber Apodaea;

* received from the center where she helped; teens with

I drug and’ aieaimi prebierns. Sins was wearing it

when an underage drunk driver took her iite.

‘Warts: by %.<§’.???¥a<§.'§ -?«.§z:z:fs:<:-

we ms-gpartmmt e=f'£‘r.mia;gm1at'£u..

i Friends Borft Let Friends Drive‘ lilruntc.

Phi

works.
Call

Paul.
X4060

-miiil news briefs to

 

Students to celebrate Chinese New Year

The Dept. of East Asian Languages and Literatures
at Washington and Lee University will be celebrating the
Chinese New Year on Saturday, February 1st. This third
annual China-Japan Day will be held from 10-3 at the Red

House (located between Lee Chapel and the Robert E. Lee .
Episcopal Church and is free and open to the public. The '

program will include presentations by Chinese and Japa-
nese language students, demonstrations of ikebana (ﬂower
arranging), calligraphy and Chinese & Japanese cuisines,
origami, and other events. For further information call
458-8936.

Physics professor wins national science award

David W. Sukow, assistant professor of physics and
engineering at Washington and Lee University, has re-
ceived the National Science Foundation’s most prestigious
award for junior faculty. His Career Award provides
$400,000 over five years for his research projects involv-
ing optics and lasers. Career Awardees were selected on
the basis of creative, career-development plans that effec-
tively integrate research and education within the context
of the mission of their institution.

l Lexington

 

Forecast
Monday- Partly Cloudy, High Wind- 42/19

Tuesday- Partly Cloudy- 32/15
Wednesday- Mostly Cloudy- 29/16
Thursday- Light Snow Showers- 26/6
Friday- Partly Cloudy- 30/12
Saunday-h4osﬂy(Houdy-35/19

Sunday- Moderate Snow- 35/ 14

Fraternities,
Soro  

pled es and new
mem ers up for
Lipsync 2003

Visit the booth outside
the CoOp Jan. 20-22.
Entry fee is $100.

   

Sign your

today!

    
 

Emu S1.0otJ—S2..090fm'3~ows!:udentGro:$
2&3 just 3 
i .. . 

fxéiaiiifzsiie fundraixhg tswialna uiraiﬁlzakiier. P»-is  EH42 rtilﬁsé; hut wrgvcrsf-55
Fun-aikzmlng  are ‘filing; quiri-ﬂy.  with the pmgrsams rim waiter

been-PIE

.lrbrr.r ilrrerreoi .S“(m-,rz°'r*'_g“r)r tiailefge Frriufmiri

....... 

    
    
   
      
      
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

4

.1-

Y

  
  

 

 
 

 

lSENIoRs:
CHECK OUT A GREAT SUMMER JOB
IN THE MEDICINE Bow MoUNTAINs

or SOUTHERN WYOMING.
WWW.CO0LWORKS.COM/ABARA HAS FULL
INFORMATION ABOUT THE A BAR A GUEST
RANCH. THE MANAGER WILL BE ON CAMPUS
INTERVIEWING oN FEBRUARY 5. EMAIL B03
HOWE AT ABARARANCH@AOL.COM To SET UP AN
I INTERVIEW OR ASK QUESTIONS.

 
   
   

 

'5'!‘-NR3.

 

  

     

AC.

   
  
   
   
 
  
  
  
 
   
   
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
   
  
  
  
   
    
 
  
   
 
   
   
  
    
 
  
  
 
   
    
  
   
   
 
   
   
  
  
  
 
  
   
 

   

    
 
    
  
   
   
 
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
  

 
   
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
     
 
        
 

 
 
    

 

~~.~ . ryf A -

PINIONS

0 THE RiNO-run Pin
MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 2003

'i'i-r:.l{iNi3—'i:i;isl’i~ii .
STAEE EDITORIAL
Phi challenges media. among other things

Nothing in this world can remain pure and
uncorrupt without a little competition or chal-
lenge every now and then. Call us pretentious
(because we are), but The Ring-tum Phi has
decided to challenge the American media to
step up its standards.

America should look to her underling South
Korea and see herself in a few years if changes
aren’t made soon. South Koreans hate America.
This widespread hatred stems from one simple
factor, the bias of their press. South Korean
media encourage their audiences to trust their
communist neighbors to the north and hate
America (who is, in fact, the only power stop-
ping the North Koreans from killing them all).

The South Koreans are not stupid people.
They think and believe their press are showing
them the whole picture. Only through the eyes of
a bystander, however, can one see that this so-
called press is not telling it’s audience the whole
story. Giving the press the beneﬁt of the doubt,
perhaps they cannot ﬁnd out the whole story.

Which brings about a scary thought. What
if the same thing is happening in America?
What if the senior editors at the Washington
Post and CNN think they are presenting
America with the most accurate and complete
information available, when in reality they can-
not see the whole picture? V

The only way the media can combat this is
to search and search and search some more for
all possible information. The Phi chooses this
opportunity to state its purpose in the endeavor
of an accurate and pure media world. We will,
to the best of our 20-year-old abilities, strive to
search and scrounge every story or article we
write in order to provide you, Washington and
Lee University, with the purist campus media
possible. W&L will not become the next South
Korea. It can be the epitomy of a true free press
for the rest of America. While some of you may
say, ‘What can one campus newspaper do to
better the American press?’. We say, it’s going
to take one news organization at a time stepping
up its standards in order to raise the bar for all
American media.

On another note, the Phi challenges the Lex-
ington police to ﬁght thecrirneof this world and stop

On yet another note, the Phi challenges the
Washington and Lee CoOp(eralional Facility of
Glory) to join the 21 st century and take diversity by
storm. It’s high time those drink shelves started show-
ing some alternative faces. Bring back the Switch!

pul1ir1govercold,sleepyeditorslateonSur1daynights. ‘

   

 te of the Week

“. . .‘hot boxing,’ acircumstance where too
manysOrOiitymernbeissmro1mdaﬁeshinan”

~The T ri'alent, our esteemed competition

Dlttill 1. ixlirvi;-m\

OPINIONS EDHOR
EMAi;iqRvrANE@\iru.Ei)U

Dems shut down Senate

Daschle and company refuse to organize, paralyze committees, ignore electorate

You probably don’t know it, but
the 108"‘ Congress, set to convene
January 3'“, didn’t actually get under-
way until last Thursday. While you

may be tempted to breathe a sigh of

relief—aﬁer all, the only days you
know your wallet is truly secure are
the days Congress is not in session—
the reasons for this two-week delay
are disheartening.

The Democrats didn’t get the
memo. The memo from the electorate,
that is. Though the voters chose to
hand leadership of the Senate back to
the GOP on November 5, the Senate
Democrats, in a remarkable Hugo
Chavez-esque display of deﬁance, re-
fused to relinquish control of the com-
mittees. Under the arcane rules gov-
erning the body, the Senate must pass
a resolution “reorganizing” itself, that
is, appointing Republican committee
chairs (now that they are in the maj or-
ity) to replace the Democratic ones.

The catch (in the Senate, there’s
always a catch) is that, practically
speaking, any Senate action needs
60 votes to pass. This year, the Demo-
crats, desperate to hold on to power
for as long as possible, bucked 200-
plus years of Senate history and
threatened to deadlock the organi-
zation.

Money, the most popular of all
Washington motives, was the culprit
behind this quasi-coup d ’etat. The
Dems demanded that office space and
money be split 51%/49%, the current
partisan makeup of the Senate. While
this may seem reasonable at first
blush, consider the fact that tradition
has always held that funding be split
2/3 for the majority party and 1/3 for
the minority party, regardless of who
is in control. It seems that actually
running the government (instead of
throwing up obstructionist road-
blocks) requires more
institutional support.

But do not de-
spair, conservatives.
The Democrats’ des-
peration belies their true motivation:

  

’ fear. What the Democrats know, and

what they fervently hope never be-
comes well-known, is that their pleas
for power have of late fallen on deaf
cars. In 2000, the Dems dragged out
the trusty, but rusty, class warfare
litany. Al Gore told America that
Dubya pitted the “people” vs. “the

 iiiiciiiii ON! I  ii
l.9tl§lﬁ_aHE-iTH.:0i,-. pubiican. they’ll take

powerful,” while the GOP campaigned
on releasing people from restrictive
government so they could. become
powerful. We know how that cam-
paign tumed out.

In 2002, the Dems tried to cam-
paign as “Republican Lite,” desper-
ately trying to pick off swing voters.
Unfortunately for them, when the vot-
ers are given a choice
between a real Repub-
lican and a fake Re-

the real Republican
every time (Virginia Gov. Mark Warner ’s
election notwithstanding).

So why are the Dems desperately
trying to delay and obstruct the work-
ings of the Senate? Alter all, they’re
only two seats away from recaptur-
ing the majority. The Democrats are
running scared because they can read
a calendar- and a map.

.OURTEb\‘ |l‘1i'1i'Z.\'RLL'ORG
STOP! Daschle refused to recognize the new majority and allow the Senate to proceed.

In 2004, 34 seats in the Senate
will be up, and the Democrats have
the lion’s share, 19, to defend. Of the
seats the Republicans have to defend,
only one, perhaps two, will be truly
vulnerable. The Democrats will have
a plethora of seats in such Bush-
friendly states as Georgia, South Caro-
lina, North Dakota, and Arkansas, and
the popular Commander-in—Chief will
top the ballot this time.

Realistically, the Senate Demo-
crats have little to no chance of re-
gaining the majority in 2004, if any-
thing; they’ll probably lose ground.
All the more reason to obstruct, ob-
struct, obstruct now and set the pre-
cedent for greater institutional fimd—
ing. They tried co-opting the GOP
platform in November and lost; I guess
now the Democrats are trying a new
twist on an old adage: if you can’t
join ‘em, beat ‘em.



Editor in chief
Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Photo Editor
Sports Editor
Asst. News Editors

Katie J. Howell
Brett T. Kirwan
Catherine C. Guy
J eb G Brooks
Erin Julius
Megan Morgan
Caley Anderson
McQueen Calvert
Tallie Jamison
Donny Banks

Asst. Arts & Life Editor
Photographer
Copy Editor

Paul Seifert
Thomas Worthy
Henry Grimball
McQueen Calvert

Business Manager
Asst. Business Manager
Circulation Director
Advertising Assistant

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editors in chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Wrginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Wrginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi . WI u. edu

Letters to the Editor

Smith all washed up on Flush, fraternities

Dear Editor,

I thought I would share my thoughts of Tim Srnith’s
article in last week’s paper entitled “Rush Week Exempli-
ﬁes Best, Worst of W&L.” I am an independent and do
get a little tired of non-Greeks complaining about the Greek
system strangling the social life of all W&L students. I am
a big proponent of the Greek system. W&L’s Greek sys-
tem is truly unique, most importantly that all fraternity and
sorority functions are open to independents. The Greek
system adds character to W&L and should, without a
doubt, remain on campus for years to come.

However, I have to question Srnith’s reasoning in the
last part of his article. He states, “In cases when a person
does not get accepted anywhere, there is some clear good
to be extracted from the rejection: its not that you aren’t
good enough — it means simply that there are aspects of
your behavior or personality that seriously need reﬂect-
ing upon. Every person has their own faults, and though
we’d prefer to not have them pointed out so dramatically,
the key is to make an honest effort to correct them.” Is this
a joke? It seems that Smith is implying that if you do not
pledge a sorority or fraternity, there is something wrong
with you that should be changed immediately.

Sure, I felt a little dejected when I did not receive an
invitation to join a fraternity my freshman year, but that, in
no means, says there is something wrong with me. Smith
implies that I should have changed aspects of my personal-
ity to ﬁt in with the rest of the school. Well that hasn’t
happened in my four years at W&L and I certainly would
NEVER change my personality based on the results of rush.

  

   

“Nothing.”
-Lucas Gredell ‘06

“Nothing.”
-Anne Hungerford ‘06

All of my close friends at this school are part of the
Greek system and they have never treated me differently
as a result. That is the definition of a true friend: one that
accepts you for who you are. Mr. Smith, if you think that
being a member of a fraternity declares you to be perfect
and me to be inferior, then your ideas about rush and the
Greek system might “seriously need reﬂecting upon.”
Sincerely,

Chase Bice ‘03

Boy Scouts right to expel Lambert

Dear Editor,

hr “BSAdiscriminate against atheists, ” (Nov. 18) Caley
Anderson tut-tuts the Boy Scouts for “intolerantly” choos-
ing to revoke 19-year-old Eagle Scout Darrell Lambert’s leader
registration. Lambert, it turns out, is an avowed atheist.

The Scout Oath is as follows: “On my honor I will do my
best] To do my duty to God and my country/ and to obey
Scout Law;/ To help other people at all times;/ To keep myself
physically strong,/ mentally awake and morally straight.”

My question is, how on earth did an atheist ever make
Eagle Scout in the ﬁrst place? Lambert should never have
been given the honor: every time he has sworn that oath
while an atheist, he has lied. His lie broke the ﬁrst Scout Law
to be trustworthy; his atheism broke the twelﬁh Scout Law to
be reverent.

The Boy Scouts shouldn’t have revoked Mr. Lambert’s
leadership position—they should have gone further and re-
voked his Eagle badge.

Sincerely,
Kyle Sulli, ‘O6

  

“Nothing.”
-Sara Kell Bowers ‘06

“Nothing.”
-Ryan Hoover ‘06

PAGE 3

Anti-Americanism
flourishes in England

Britons tear war, Bush, and strength,
responsibility lost with collapse of Empire

Over the Christmas holidays, I had the oppor-
tunity to spend a couple of weeks in one of our
country’s strongest allies: England. Since the days
of Winston Churchill and FDR, the United States
and the United Kingdom have enjoyed a so-called
“special relationship,” with each country support-
ing the other. America, in theory, has no stronger
ally in the world.

Yet one would not have guessed that by read-
ing (most of) the British press, for with the excep-
tion of the Times
and the Daily
Telegraph, Brit-
ons are inun-
dated with head-
lines from their major newspapers ranging from
moderate skepticism of war in Iraq to outright op-
position.

This would be less frightening if the press
was simply serving as a cautionary voice, which it
is doing to some extent on this side of the Atlan-
tic, yet it is not. Instead, an increasing percentage
of Britons are voicing opposition to war in Iraq,
and more signiﬁcantly, expressing hostility to-
wards America.

Now that their once—mighty Empire has all but
vanished, they seem to have forgotten that the
Bush Administration, even in its presently hawk-
ish mood, has far more respect for human rights
and democracy, and greater concern for world
peace, than the British Government ever did until
fairly recent times.

Yet, the man on the street seems to forget
this, and this reality is reﬂected in the choice of
books on the bestsellers shelf at Waterstone’s, a
major book retailer in the UK. Alongside “regu-
lar” books lies various compendiums of
“Bushisms,” Michael Moore’s “Stupid White
Men” and a faux-crayon illustrated book called
“Tony (Blair) and Me,” attributed to President
Bush but of course just another product of the
various parody houses out there.

“Tony and Me” is the worst, because it stoops
to the lowest common denominator and reduces
our president to a stupid cowboy who can’t even
spell his own name, let alone solve the world’s
problems.

I would not be so upset if this anti—American-
ism were present in, say, Saudi Arabia, which has
much more at risk (for example, its territorial integ-
rity) in a war with Iraq than the UK does. That
would make much more sense, given the Saudis’
general pigheadedness and opposition to any-
thing not exactly in line with their oppressively
narrow-minded view of the world. But the British
are meant to be our steadfast allies, and it is clear
that this is increasingly not the case. Is the United
States unnecessarily bellicose?

Let’s examine the facts. As of this column’s
writing, chemical warheads hadjust been discov-
ered by the U.N. inspections team in Baghdad,
and the mood has been described as “very tense.”

Right now, it is clear that Iraq is hiding some-
thing, but that they do not yet have the capability
to lash out at the United States in such a way that
it would not be instantly defeated. However, as
soon as Saddam Hussein gets his hands on a
nuclear bomb or two, he will have this deterrent.
How so? Case in point: North Korea.

The reason that the United States is not talk-
ing about bombing North Korea is multi-faceted,
but one of the key factors is because we know for
a fact that the North Koreans could use nuclear
weapons against us or one of our allies in the re-
gion, a risk that we do not want to take. It is im-
perative that we disarm Saddam before Iraq, too,
reaches this level, at which point we will have lost
the game, whether we choose not to disarm him
forcibly or we are brutally attacked.

Very few people actually support large-scale
war with Iraq. Instead, the majority no doubt pre-
fers a conﬂict similar to the Gulf War, in which
Saddam Hussein was easily defeated, and this is
precisely what we are capable of doing again. What
will happen, if we do not act now, is that this ide-
alized battle (in which we really can minimize the
loss of life and damage done to property) is only
possible before Saddam Hussein has the capabil-
ity to seriously deter us.

While going to war is never pleasant, it is in-
finitely preferable to carry out a limited yet effi-
cient operation now, never mind what the
peaceniks say, and invest in a safer, more peaceful
future.

RIGHT-WING RESPONSE
lMRAN NAEEMULLAH ‘05

   

“Nothing.”
-Colin Garner ‘06

  

  

 

MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 2003

hinahs

   
   

  
   

4:», E

otlijng on Lex ‘

'¢

l-l()'l"0(.()l RID). ll ll ll .I_\TR , /D-l L(. . -

SITE OF THE MASSACRE. In 1989, at Tiananmen, the PLA mowed down students who sought the freedom promised 40 years earlier.

Belatedly, I have come to reﬂect
on my experience in China. Perhaps
it was my first trip to Crystal since
returning to Lexington. Perhaps it
was the meeting for returning study
abroad students held
this past Tuesday.
Perhaps it was writ
ing my first paper for
Chinese Philosophy.
Whatever the reason, China is on
my mind.

Naturally, I remember the little
things I miss, like the toilets in which
one cannot ﬂush toilet paper, eel and
squid served street-side on skewers,
and a room covered in dust that ﬂoats
in from the Gobi Desert. Conversely, I
recall the wonders of Lexington China
was without, such as Leybum’s pow-
dered soap, Super Wal—mart and late
nights at the Phi.

However, for all the historical
and cultural splendor that China
boasts, its biggest cities and grand-
est palaces will never match li’l ol’
Lex. Beijing may have the homes of
emperors and a square which has
seen half a dozen revolutions, but

   
 

 
 f04

APARTMENT FOR RENT
7 miles from Lexington
1 Bedroom, kitchen/living room,
private entrance
electric, water, heat included
please leave message 540 464 6698

Lexington’s sense of history is more
personal, more direct and less impos-
ing. Beijing’s byways may be lined
with massive markets and endless
salesmen, but Lexington’s shopkeep-
ers aren’t dedicated
to cheating you.
Beijing may soon
play host to the
. Olympics, but, I’ll
take the Lee-Jackson Classic any day.

More important, though, are the
qualities that set any city in America
apart from China. Here, one may write
for the school paper without getting
permission from the Communist Party.
Our university leaders are not required
to join the Communist Party to ad-
vance their careers. The foreign stu-
dents are not kept in separate dormi-
tories and discouraged to eat only
with their own, not mixing with the
local population (unless one counts
the I-House). Soldiers do not patrol
the streets eager to prevent political
dissent from being heard.

In America, celebrities may
openly criticize the govemment, how-
ever moronically (see the “Cowards

of the Week”). Athletes are not re-
quired to offer their performance to
the glory of the Party. School childem
are not forced to join a govemment-
run group that delivers political in-
doctrination. Religions are not sup-
pressed and outlawed.

In the end, it is not our wealth
or our power that sets America
apart. It is our unique Constitution,
tradition of liberty and reverence
for the rule of law (Mr. Clinton’s ex-
ception notwithstanding) that have
made America the world’s greatest
nation. Traveling to a country
whose citizens have lived so long
under oppression that they are pla-
cated by a fast growing economy
and sporting spectacles deepens
my love for our homeland. Of
course, it also makes me cringe
when people talk as if economic in-
dicators are the only measure of
presidential success.

What did I really learn while
abroad? The language, naturally.
Some history and culture, surely. But
most of all, a love for home, school,
friends and family.

     
     
      

 

PAGE 5

owards of the Wee

Ari irregular feature of the Rjzgzzzﬁz IW Opinions S€:Ci;lO§1

 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
       
 
 

Last Monday at the American Music Awards, Sheryl
Crow proclaimed her disapproval for war effort both in
her acceptance speech and on a much-talked about se-
quined T-shirt which she designed herself.

In December, actor Sean Penn, star of “Fast Times
at Ridgemont High” and “IAm Sam,” in which he played
a perpetually stoned surfer and a mentally challenged
man, respectively, traveled to Baghdad for a Potemkin
tour hosted by President-for-life Saddam Hussein.

Crow and Penn are only the most recent and the
most ridiculous in a long tradition of Hollywood’s bright-
est stars and dimmest bulbs deigning to share insights
on politics, society and life with regular Americans.

Ms. Crow’s pearls of wisdom include:

“I think war is based in greed and there are huge
karmic retributions that will follow. I think war is never
the answer to solving any problems. The best way to
solve problems is to not have enemies.”

“I just think there’s a really vital, sweeping peace
movement out there that’s not getting‘ covered in the
press, so I just kind of try to do my part.”

“Peace, peace this year!” ’

“Hey everybody, I know this is an award show but
I just want to encourage everybody to get involved in
some kind of movement for peace.”

Penn gave us the following:

“Somewhere along the line, the actions of this gov-
ernment are the actions of me. And if there’s going to be
blood on my hands, I’m not willing to have it be invisible.
I wanted to come to Iraq and see Iraqi faces—children,
adults, diplomats, anybody that implies—and go home
with some impressions that will not let me off the hook.”

“(The administration is trying to) herd us into this
position. We as citizens have to take stock of our own
conscience on these issues.”

Sheryl Crow and Sean Penn

PHUFOSCOURTEW1W/1V2REDDL\C.COMAlvDli uzcro ‘ .
LIKE, UM, PEACE, DUDE. Crow and Penn, at the American Movie Awards and asjeff Spicoli, have assumed leadership of
Hollywood’s peace movement. Crow bared her message on a sequined T-shirt and Penn recently visited Saddam.

OM Lr\lET5TORl l

“I don’t believe that, despite some compelling argu-
ments  that it is legitimate for someone in my position to
quote him and to be a messenger of anything to do with
that message.”

Thank you Sheryl and Sean.

Crow and Penn win this week’s Coward of the Week
because of their demonstrated fear of accepting the re-
sponsibility incumbent on our nation due to its status as
the world’s most powerful. Laughably, Crow is afraid of
“karmic retributions.” Penn cowers from being “a messen-
ger of anything to do with that messge.”

Well, Sheryl, Sean, sometimes, the world’s adult
nations, such as the United States, along with our
allies like Britain and Australia, have to act, even
with deadly force, to protect themselves and the rest
of the civilized world from the irrational acts of mad-
men armed with powerful weapons. Just as the police
apprehend and sometimes execute criminals to
portect those who would otherwise fall victim,
America must stop Saddam before he nukes Israel,
Europe or, worse, our homeland.

Ironically, in Iraq, freedoms so essential to the enter- I

tairnrient industry are nonexistent. Here, in war-monger-
ing America, Crow and Penn are free to make movies and
music, dress as they please and criticize the govemment.
Perhaps Sheryl should start wearing a Burqa. Perhaps the
government should instruct Sean whom to vote for in the
next election.

For the most part, athletic celebreties have the good
sense to stick to their expertise and let informed, albeit
non-celebrity, Americans make decisions without the back-
ground noise of their “advice. Crow and Penn would do
well to follow their example, because, in the excellent words
of a Washington, DC., anti-peacenik marcher, “Paciﬁsts
are parasites to freedom.”

C-school no longer stapleless

Bolting from the lab in a panic he

   
 
 
  
 

Best Seller lllﬂlllllellls: [Z] -
2 Bl! ant.'s in town.
Available June 1.
laundrv Ilroviuetl. $550IMo.
Gall llanev-lameswm Moore Ileal Estate.
463-1080.

This week, I present to you a
problem that will be known to a
large portion of students: those of
us who are either C-School majors
or taking C-school classes. To il-
lustrate, I will tell you about my
Thursday night.

I was sitting in the lab of the
Williams school on the third floor
completing an assignment for my
Politics 201 class.
The mood was
light as two of my
fellow seniors were
sitting around me.
We were discussing rush, how we
were still trying to remember many
of the freshmen’s names and re-
membering how stupid we were at
that time as well.

Thus, with the conversation it
seemed like no time at all before I
had finished my lab assignment and
printed out my five pages of work.
All’s well so far. However, it wasn’t
until I collected my work from the
printer that trouble started. I picked
up the stapler next to the first printer.
I gave it a good squeeze only to ﬁnd
it empty. I moved on to the second
stapler next to the second printer.
Same result.

 

....,,.,__.l§l£3.l.\_'..IQMSEI.:03

Now if this were merely a ﬂuke
or isolated event, I would have no
reason to complain. However, empty
staplers in the C-School are more than
a trend. They are a promise. Not once
during fall term when I was working
on assignments in the Williams
school were there ever staples for the
staplers.

But I digress: back to Thursday
evening. I returned
to my chair amongst
my peers to check
my email one last
time and log off from
my computer. Seeing that I was a bit
annoyed, one of them asked me what
was wrong. I explained my staple-less
woes and received not sympathy, but
rather empathy. It appears that both
of my two friends have in the past
experienced this problem.

One, however, has a far more
interesting story than mine. He was
completing a paper in the lab when
the trouble started. He printed his
work just a few minutes before the
hour that was his deadline. He quickly
straightened his papers for the staple
to be placed in the top left comer.
Alas, no staples in the stapler. Sec-
ond stapler, same result.

searched in vain for a stapler he could
use with actual staples in it. He tried the
one next to the printer on the ﬁrst ﬂog.
only to ﬁnd as I did Thursday night,
that it too was empty. With the bells ﬁom

Lee Chapel beginning to toll, he did the .

only thing he could. He looked for a pro-
fessor to ask for a stapler.

But the gods were not happy on
that ﬁne day. No professor was to be
found, so he walked into an empty of-
ﬁce. Just as he was pressing the sta-
pler together the professor (who shall
remain nameless) walked in and found
him with the stapler in hand. Even af-
ter trying to explain himself, he was
chastised for his behavior. The pro-
fessor, however, decided it was not a
matter for the EC.

All this trouble because the fac- ‘

ulty of the C-School is unable to pro-
vide their students with a tiny little
piece of metal so crucial to the paper
writing process. So, my promise to you
is that when you go into the labs o
the C-School this week. . . there will
staples. I will put them there mysel
for school-wide use. But, once they
have I'I.1I1 low it will be up to some other
giving soul to replace them. God
knows they won’t get there otherwise.

 

# 1 Spring Break Vacations!

Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, & Florida.
Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices!
Group Discounts, Group organizers travel free!
Space is limited! Hurry up & Book Now!

1-800-234-7007
www.endlesssummertours.com '

  
    
 

  
  
  
   
  

CAIIIERINE C. GUY
II 3:. 1 IG-TU"I\x I)? ART5&L113EEDTr0R
Emil.‘ cIw@wIDEDU

II RIN I
 L H MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 2003

Edelweiss restaurant in Staunton provides unique dining opportunity

 

  

J

PAGE 5

t

BY HAYNES KING
TRAVEL CORRESPONDENT

If you are interested in
experiencing different cultures but
do not have the time or money to
travel abroad, there is a nearby
restaurant that will give you a ﬂavor
for the middle of Germany. Only 30
minutes North on Interstate 81 in
Staunton, VA, is Edelweiss German
Restaurant.

The traditional structure of the
restaurant sets the tone for a dining
experience I am sure you will enjoy.
The rustic atmosphere and
traditional German food and drinks
help visitors to feel that they are
sitting in Bavaria.

Chef Ingrid prepares a wonderﬁil
selection of Wiener Schnitzel,
Bratwurst and Sauerbraten. Don’t
Worry; the menu explains exactly what
each dish is. The waiting staff is also
extremely helpful in deciding what will
ﬁt your own taste. If you are visiting
the restaurant with a group, the
German Sampler, which includes
Sauerbraten, Goulasch, Schnitzel,
Rahmschnitzel and Jaegerschnitzel,
should satisfy all of your interests in

German cuisine. The prices are
reasonable, but if you do not want to
spend too much, I would suggest
Visiting for lunch.

Although I passed on dessert, 1
would imagine that the homemade
desserts are excellent. The restaurant
does have an extensive collection of
imported German beers which I regret
I could not have.

Edelweiss is located on 19
Edelweiss Lane in Staunton, Virginia
off of the Greenville exit. Since 1981,
the restaurant has been serving the
best German food in the area. If you
want to take a date, I’m not sure that
most women would choose the
restaurant themselves, but it is worth
a try.

Check out Edelweiss Restaurant
at www.edelweissrestaurantva.com.

Haynes and Jeb give Edelweiss 4 out of 5 Tridents.

Haynes King, Travel Corre-
spondent, will appear weekly.
Next week features the Natural
Bridge Wax Museum

  

Professor to aid in sniper case

BY CALEY ANDERSON
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

Professor Roger Groot of the
School of Law will face a unique
and high-proﬁle challenge in the
coming months. He has accepted a
request to aid in the legal defense
of John Malvo, the 17-year old
Jamaican who allegedly participated
in a series of sniper shootings that
claimed 14 lives and injured seven
more across the United States.

The request came from Michael
Arif, a northern Virginia attorney
who was appointed by the court to
represent Malvo, who faces the
possibility of the death penalty; as
Virginia Juvenile Court Judge
Charles Maxﬁeld has ordered him
to be tried as an adult.

Groot, who has been employed
at Washington and Lee since 1990,
will aid in the case with the support
of Washington and Lee’s Virginia
Capital Case Clearinghouse (VC3), a
capital case defense organization
which promotes the cooperation of
volunteer law students and capital
defense attorneys.

The VC3 did not actively seek
out its participation in this case;
rather, Arif personally sought out
Groot to request the assistance of
the VC3 and the Capital Defense
Workshop, an organization which
educated capital defense
attorneys in Virginia, and which
Groot co—chairs.

Asked why he personally
works with the VC3 on such cases,
Groot responded “I think that
operating in the trenches as much
as I can while maintaining my
obligations to the students and to
the law school makes me a much
better teacher.” Prior experience
with working in conjunction with
the VC3 had greatly aided his
classroom understanding, Groot
said.

While Groot can’t give out
many specifics about the hard
facts and evidence of the case,
he is deeply concerned with
getting Malvo a fair trial in such
a large—publicity case. “A change
of venue...is the normal remedy

IIIoIo<DtRIEsY\IIuv.voIDEI>D
LI-:xINc.'roN’s FINEST. Washington and
Lee Professor of Law Roger Groot,
who will be a crucial member of the
defense team for one of the accused

capitol area snipers, minorjohn Malvo.

for extensive press coverage, the
difficulty in this case, of course,
is that the extensive press
coverage was essentially
nationwide. Where in Virginia do
you move a Virginia case to find a
jury that has not been impacted
as much as the jury in the original
jurisdiction?”

Groot worries that one of the
most difficult problems ofthe case
may occur in finding a fair and
impartial jury before the trial ever
begins.

Capital defense is nothing new
to Groot, who has already
participated in several death
penalty defense cases. None quite
approach the nationwide publicity
that the “sniper case” has received,
but Groot notes that it is the duty
ofthe 15-year old VC3 to “agree to
assist in every Virginia capital case
in which counsel...requests
assistance.”

Malvo is scheduled to be
brought before a grand jury on
February 25”‘, though

representatives from both the
prosecution and the defense
doubt that they will be prepared
by then.

\XNlWAI\lERlCWI’AllU.(D\l

On trial: Accused D.C. area snipers John Malvo and john Allen Mohammad.

 

  

 

.\IEIx\REmLRm\.

 

I+IiIr>IILI<IE§\\x\

 

A LITTLE TASTE OF BAVARIA IN STAUNTON. Edelweiss Restaurant provides an authentic German dining experience in the heart of the Blue Ridge. The food and the
atmosphere make the moderate drive worthwhile. Chef Ingrid, a friendly and accomodating native German, expertly guides Edelweiss to gastronomic perfection.

FROM STAFF AND WIRE REPORTS

Washington, D.C.— Planning a school break
trip? A sunny beach? A foreign country? Ski-
ing? If you’re using a special tour package, you
may think everything’s taken care of. How sure
are you?

Before you show up at the airport with your
boogie board, passport, or skis, review the tour
package carefully and investigate the operator.
Lots of students don’t get the trip they expect;
others lose out completely. They didn’t take the
time to carefully read the ﬁne print, evaluate the
promotion and make sure its not run by a ﬂy-by-
night company peddling a ﬁrst—class scam.

Flights for many school break trips are by
public charter, which have different rules than
commercial ﬂights. Before you dot the “i”s and
cross the “t”s on your contract, do some home-
work and take good look at the package. The
Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and the Ameri-
can Society of Travel Agents (ASTA) offer the
following tips and information to help you avoid
a school break bust.

-Check out the operator. Avoid high-pres-
sure sales pitches for a school break package.
Ask the operator to send you the information
about the business, and the names of satisﬁed
customers. Ask friends who have used the op-
erator about their experience. Check with 10-
cal travel agents to see if they know if the opera-
tor is legitimate, or call ASTA’s Consumer Af-
fairs Department (703-739-8739).

-If the trip involves a charter ﬂight, call the
Department of Transportation (DOT) Public Char-
ter Licensing Division (202-366-2396) to make sure
the charter operator has properly ﬁled to operate
charter ﬂights from your departure city to your
destination. Charter packages cannot be sold
until the charter ﬁling is approved by the DOT.

-Read the ﬁne print. Get a copy of the opera-
tor/participant contract. This will tell you the con-
ditions under which the operator can change
ﬂight schedules (usually charters can be can-
celled for any reason by the operator up until 10
days before the trip), hotel accommodations (op-
erators may put you up in an alternate hotel listed
in the operator contract that is not as nice as the
hotel advertised in the package materials), and
the rules and penalties for _ cancellation. Ask
about cancellation insurance. Rules state that
an operator cannot ask for or accept your pay-
ment until you have signed and returned the con-
tract.

-Understand your rights. According to DOT
rules, you have a right to cancel a charter pack-
age without penalty if the operator makes a “ma—
jor change”. Maj or changes include a change of
departure or return date or city, a hotel substitu-
tion to a property not named in the charter opera-
tor/participant contract, or a package price in-
crease of more than 10 percent.

-Pay by credit card. It gives you more pro-
tection than cash or a check. If you pay by check
for a charter package, make sure it is payable to
-an escrow account (as required by federal law for

Avoid a school break bust this winter, spring

charters) and call the bank handling the escrow
account to verify its validity. Be wary of charter
operators who are reluctant to provide escrow
bank information-they may be selling another
ﬁrm’s space— or tell you they’ll send a courier to
pick up your money.

-Expect ﬂight delays. They’re common of
charter ﬂights. DOT rules allow for a charter ﬂight
to be delayed up to 48 hours if mechanical difﬁ-
culties occur. And the operator is not obligated
to provide alternative transportation or compen-
sate you for your expenses if such a delay oc-
curs. Check the contact to see if the operator will
cover any costs (lodging, car rental, etc.) associ-
ated with ﬂight delays not related to mechanical
difﬁculties.

The FTC works for the consumer to prevent

fraudulent, deceptive and unfair business prac-

tices in the marketplace and to provide inforrna-
tion to help consumers spot, stop and avoid them.
To ﬁle a complaint or to get free information on
consumer issues, visit www.ﬁc.gov or call toll-
free, l-877-FTC-HELP (l-877-382-24357); TIY: 1-
866-653-4261. The FTC enters Internet,
telemarketing, identity theft and other fraud-re-
lated complaints into Consumer Sentinel, a se-
cure, online database available to hundreds of
civil and criminal law enforcement agencies in the
U.S. and abroad.

With two major breaks quickly approaching,
W&L students should heed this warning when
planing their February and Spring Break excur-
sions.

You ARE THE DANCING QUEENS

Victory! The winners of the 2002 Lip Synch competition perform a medley of Michael Jackson songs. These performers were freshmen members
of Kappa Alpha Theta sorority. Come see this year’s competition on Saturday, January 25 at the Pavillion. Proﬁts beneﬁt SARAH; Students Against
Rockbridge Area Hunger. The winners of the contest receive free tickets to the upcoming Fancy Dress Ball, which will be held on Friday, March 7.

HIE PHOTO

you have a life. write about it. x4060

 

 
    

PAGE 6 MONDAY, IANUARY 20, 2003

 & LIFE

Beauty discovered in DuPont

Last term — late Tuesday night of exam week to be
exact — I found myself wandering around DuPont Hall
in hopes of discovering some form of procrastination
to relieve my caffeine-
induced, Leyburn—
overdosed min
Why exactly I cho
DuPont, I cannot say.
But for some odd
reason, late in the night, my walk led me there.

I entered the “realm of the artists”, and to my
surprise someone else was there, somewhere, playing
the piano. I stopped, listened, and for a moment stood
completely motionless, mesmerized by this magniﬁcent
music coming from somewhere up above. I ascended
the stairs, following the enchanting sounds, searching
for the source of this beauty. It came from behind the
door of Shuko Watanabe.

Whether it was Shuko Watanabe herself or whether
it was a student, I do not know. Yet despite Watanabe’s
passion to play, I seriously doubt she would be playing
in her office at 1 in the morning. Undoubtedly it was a
student who, like me, was probably searching for some
means of procrastination also.

I sat there for at least 10 minutes, just listening.
The pianist played ﬂawlessly — it was remarkable. It
was a piece from the Romantic Era, no doubt - perhaps
a Chopin or a Liszt? But whatever piece and whatever
the pianist’s identity, the pianist played ﬂawlessly and
with such intensity that all I could do at that moment
was sit in the stairwell and listen to the melancholic
melody.

The artist never knew that on the other side of the
closed door, someone was listening, feeling a complete
peace of mind and ﬁnding a reason to write a column in
the newspaper in praise of the artists at Washington
and Lee. So, Bravo! I dedicate this ﬁrst article to you,
the mysterious student who played beautiful music
behind a closed door at lam on the Tuesday night of
exam week.

“On the Arts” by Laura Leigh
Birdwell is a weekly column in Arts
& Life that examines artistic offer-
ings in and around the Washington
and Lee community.

ON THE ARTS
IAUEA LEIGH BIRDWQIJ3

 

 
 
   

 
 

Mbﬁl‘, 3 Police
ctor Wa1.K intﬂ

7' lUl‘47.CL)\l/l}[EF.\.\'lRUT\L‘\'Bl/

FRQMSTAFFANDWIREREPQRTS “R” for some sequences intrusion of evil,dissension,

The Washington and Lee Film
Society is pleased to announce the
presentation of the surprise hit
THE FAST RUNNER (Canada,
2001), directed by Zacharias
Kunuk.

Screenings will take place at
7:30 PM on both _Friday and
Saturday, January 24 and 25, in the
Troubadour Cinema. As always,
there will be no charge for
admission, although
contributions are always welcome.

involving sexuality, nudity, and
violence. It is 172 minutes in
length.

This, the first film to be shot
in the language of the Inuit
peoples who live within the Arctic
Circle, is one of the most
interesting and surprising
success stories to be found in
recent cinematic history,
described by Roger Ebert as “an
experience so engrossing, it is like
being buried in a new
environment.”

and jealousy into a small Inuit
clan. The spare plot (a
“romantic triangle” which
degenerates into violence)
may remind viewers of
Shakespeare, but dates from a
time before the Inuit had
encountered or even heard of
Europeans.

THE FAST RUNNER won
the Golden Camera award at
Cannes, swept the Canadian
film awards, and is nominated
for best foreign-language film

 

man o§ ﬂmﬁmmal may Ca:m~'rml;i§'eféis:-_a'

Seat: it w*»a.sn‘x an bar ftrur Swag. The l»m¢“.;3.i F3’/.:>4i»c»e. E)’-‘-i?§IIi3.!'"$I3“Y*§£?:t’I§ ;y;li»g.:§. an-i<;,zs.-.wrv fSe'a.>o:§'f€ty’-rs.
LJC3Ltr.!"1gé' fer ilslegzul c.ﬁr‘u§§. i&.czi>s.<i§¢y. instatsad <36?‘ ct;-ndaesnning, the ;:~=r{:z-§;.vi:r:_ ‘ Eh-2'35
t’.'>z-‘.:-:r‘t9Z‘.£~3it;‘t-K:-2;-i tzhacév" Ex:-ezxal cmrnrnzwnirgr cizaliaicxan- ‘Time caaliicicmi bra-ugh: ﬁr”: ";  '=‘ ' ma
'w§‘.*sc> ﬂan-aited irt*m=ir t£m<: xx: res:-rw.v\.r.:u;.¢z ab-é: 1:3-vi.2él<£=ir'»,g,.. .9-'u'§v<.“l §".h=~¢.‘. d>cu:tt-sw  ¥-ms; i‘i4:y.sl;:«eu:es.i3
12¢: *-m»kzn:t.<:e:r :-:«'4.:r’»‘i¢:.r:?$ Fcar FBsY3!‘:!ilW.-"S titme rmad drug, «twelve.-z!"9;Scé‘l}c!1-3;.

     

l‘z"s. ﬂzsmny whaxc !"1>5£fI'!F}°13.?=§'"|5$- *w§“.mn W?’ 215$! 'v.w::-r‘P<. ?££";g\tZ‘.‘t‘.hv€.‘s'. CT-a:wn:rriwrM'z:i::2ei bmc'=::2rn'm 3. twzzwzsr
p&;;.s;¢: Far a:'~.v«t:rgM:xri=vz, iasgzzacially <i.‘I!’§.X3€“ children-. =KZ.c>:r>rar'n 1.1-:’!i1‘.\;»' n‘::&."}‘23.§%lZ.>i«xI‘1rE.?_S1- l:f>‘r‘i=-«r1_g
maker C£‘sf'¥'§§'3‘.IL§l'1il’.}X gr'e:u.zg:<::. t’::vge:cl~’n¢x'. .A,r°u<.;§ g.;;cz°tt;i:rz,-gg, ‘mwcx-lwzxzl is easy. ju=«s‘t ca-nxazrvz
www»§1c!pr3waurcoruarnIuua§t)x,vsmrg 434' ‘I -8'?7-~KlEW5~.31 3.. “§“:§32'y’l§ uni? 3-mu lmcwv j§£\.'7Lb5$"' g’I"<.\1.iap
can help. ‘.°"cau'§l has §.ur‘;:2sréLs2zd l~'va::m.v rm.i_mh ygfaxs  ;§sg(.“,‘¢;7t‘_'):7r'gg‘)§i5}‘;..

‘iou get More vmeu you set tcaeti-tar.

  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
 

This film is presented in Inuktitut,
with English subtitles and is rated

Based upon a legend 1,000 in the upcoming Oscar
years old, the film tells of the awards.

 

      
  

I

Undergraduate Admissions Counselor

Happy 19th
Birthday Erin!

I

The Washington and Lee Undergraduate Ofﬁce of Admissions wishes to
announce possible openings for Admissions Counselors. Responsibilities
include: student interviews, application evaluation, and recruitment travel.
Strong communicationskills and demonstrated organizational abilities are
expected. The successful candidate will be both willing and able to work
as part of a highly successful admissions team, yet capable of creative self-
direction. Some evening and weekend work is necessary.

 

WE CAN DO IT!

Repairs -- Contacts 

 

Bachelor’s degree is required, as is a valid driver’s license. All interested
candidates should submit a cover letter and resume, including two refer-
ences, no later than Friday, February 14. All materials should be sent to:

   

COOL FRAMES!
HOT LENSES!
SHADES!

EEE MW ©@lTG@ll&N8

2'0 years serving Fiockbridge
at 203 N. Main Street. Lexington
463-7448

3(

Love,

A Your friends
JGB, CCG,
KJH, BTK, and
J SK

Julia M. Kozak
Associate Dean of Admissions

Ofﬁce of Admissions
Lexington, VA 24450

‘B

oo,g_oooo_ov9ooovogqqooooooooooo
W

i

 

-r ERIN]LIIL'S

SI>oRIs EDITOR
EI\Illl;iL11L'.SF@\ii~IL".EDL‘

rrir: Rosr; PIEEII

« Monnryfjiimry 20, 2003

BY MARY CHRISTOPHER
.\‘P()RT.\' \\'RiTER
What do Brian Avello, Mike
Bemiett, Alex Poor, and Jason Srnee

all have in common? They all made it
to the ﬁnals this Saturday, January

7 l8‘“, at the 26”‘ Annual Washington

and Lee Invitational.

Bennett, wrestling 197, and Poor,
at 165, both emerged from the ﬁnals
Victoriously. Bennett (197) pinned
Scranton freshman Trevor Needham
in 1:00 to reach the ﬁnals, where he
held off W&J junior Brad Guinn, 3-2,
for the championship

I Davidson, Washington and

Jefferson, Galludet, Waynesboro,
Pensacola Christian, Southern Vir-
ginia and University of Scranton all
competed in this much-anticipated
tournament.

Tough competition from 1“ place
ﬁnisher Washington and Jefferson
(81 points) and 2”" place University

n; of Scranton (75 points) resulted in the

I

Generals 3”’ place ﬁnish with a total
of5 1 .50 points.

“I was impressed by the strong

‘performances by all of our team-

Q .
‘ mates,” remarked sophomore Brian

Avello at the closure of the hard day
of wrestling.
The Generals’ next meet is the

;; McDaniel Triangular on Saturday.

BY ERIN JULIUS
SP()RT.\‘ EDITOR

In a home meet Sunday, Wash-

‘ ington and Lee’s women’s swim team

beat the University of the South with
a total of 126.5 points, against 114.5
points. The men’s team lost to US

‘I 136-101.

Beth Sauer turned in a strong
performance, winning the 100-yard
. oreast stroke with a time of 1 : 14.7 and
the 200-yard breast stroke with
2:38.11.

Kristine Holda also turned in
two wins. She won the 50-yard free
with a time of 26. l 9 and the 100-yard
free with a time of 55.74. Ke1liAustin

J placed second in the 100-yard free

event, right behind Holda with a time
of 56.61 .
Blair Huffman was also key to the

it Generals’ win. I Huffman won the 200-

yard ﬂy event with a time of 2: 14.98,
the 100-yard ﬂy with 1:03.57 and the
200-yard Individual Medley with
2:18.06.

The Women’s team also won the
200-yard Free Relay.

The Men’s team started out
strong, winning the 200-yard Medley

It Relay with a time of 1:40.56.

A few men turned in excellent
' .-.~ formances. Eric Ritter won the
100-yard back-stroke event with a

PORTS
Four make ﬁnals at wre stlin

PAGE 7

TALLlE]A.\IlSON/ The Ringhrm P/Ii

RASSLIN. A W&L wrestler pins his opponent during the Washington and Lee Invitational Saturday. The Generals ﬁnished in third place overall but with four wrestlers continuing to the ﬁnals.

‘(Generals hos swimmers; women win

‘I EB BR( )<)Ls/ The Rug -In/21 P/II

OF CAMPUS NOTICES FAME. Swim coach Kilqjacobs rests in her ofﬁce after Sunday’s meet

time of 54.72. Zach Fake won the
50-yard Free event with a time of
22.45. Clark Barrineau won the 500-
yard free event with a time of

5:05.85.

The Generals’ next meet is Satur-
day at home against Gettysburg. The
meet begins at 2.

Club fencing
returns to campus

BY KATIE HOWELL
EI)i'I‘(JR IN CHIEI-‘

One of Washington and Lee’s
most popular new club sports is actu-
ally not all that new.

Club fencing is back on the W&L.

campus after an eight-year absence
with over sixty members and a $675
Executive Committee budget alloca-
tion.

“The club is really informal
right now,” said freshman Sarah
Murray, publicity director. “We’re
basically just an organization based
on everyone having a good time.”

Freshman Caley Anderson
helped bring the club sport back
from obscurity in early fall. He said,
“When I went to the Club Sports
Ofﬁce to inquire about fencing, Joe
Lyles, the club sports director, said
that there was no fencing program
and that I should start one.”

Anderson then organized the
school’s fencing equipment from
the 1980s, drafted a charter and
held sign-ups. At his sign—ups,
over 70 people signed up to fence.
He said the club now has about 65

members and 45 practice regu-
larly.

“We sometimes practice with
VMI, and we also have intramural
events with other schools,” Murray
said.

..A.D.d6IS0f1 .aI1d,.M._uILay said 

the range of talent varies on the
team.

“I just started this year,”
Murray said. “But others have been
fencing for twelve years.”

The club practices four
times a week for two hours each
time in the small Doremus gym-
nasium or the top floor of the
Warner Center. Anderson said
undergraduate and law school
students, faculty, staff and Lex-
ington residents all attend the
practices where general fencing
instruction is provided and the
members compete against one
another.

Anderson said, “In general,
fencing is an extremely enter-
taining sport with little to no
risk ofinjury that also gives you
a very intense cardiovascular
workout. It can also be thera-

peutic for people with leg inju-
ries.”

While the club is thriving with
membership, practices, funding and
intramural events, the group still has
neither a regular place to practice nor
a coach. James Worth, director of Uni-
versity Counseling, is the group’s
faculty advisor and used to coach the
team during its popular days in the
1980s. Anderson said he no longer
coaches the team because he has little
spare time with his job.

“We practice in a variety of places,”
Murray said. “We’re OK right now.”

The team participated in two in- 3

tramural events so far this year and
captured second and eighth individual

places at the Virginia Wesleyan Uni— '

versity meet. The team also defeated

Hollins University by 10-9 bouts at a 1

team versus team match.

The group meets Monday,
Wednesday and Friday nights from
6-8 p.m. and Saturday afternoons
from 2-4. All community members are
invited to attend practices and no
equipment is needed.

“Overall, the club is thriving,”
Anderson said.

  ‘Mens’ basketball breaks even with one win, one loss

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Washington and Lee’s men’s basketball team

beat Lynchburg 68-51 in a game played Satur-
day afternoon in Lynchburg. Late in the first
half, sophomore Ian McClure made two three-
pointers and two free throws, starting the Gen-
erals’ 20-6 run. Going into the half, the Gener-
als led 28-22.

The win improved W&L’s record to 5-6, (2-4
ODAC). Freshman forward David Will scored 14
points, with sophomore guard Mike Stuart adding
13 and senior forward Scott Hettermann adding 12.
The team was then defeated 87-48 by Hampden-
Sydney. H-S is so far undefeated this season (14-0,
8-0 ODAC). Freshman forward Phil Landes had a
team—high nine points while senior forward Hamill
Jones and Will each added seven points for W&L.
W&L will host Emory & Henry Wednesday evening
at 7 pm.

Michaels shoots career high,
helps Lady Generals beat Va. Wesleyan

Junior forward Sarah Michaels turned in a ca-
reer—high 29 points to lead Washington and Lee
University’s women’s basketball team to a 56-35 vic-
tory against Virginia Wesleyan. Freshman guard
Louisa Feve also turned in a good performance, with
nine points and four assists. Senior center Austin
Calhoun had a game-high nine rebounds. The win
improved the Generals’ record to 2-10 (2-8 ODAC).
On Friday, the Generals will face Hollins in a home
game.

I nrrnroro
CAPTAIN IGO. Elizabeth Igo (now a Captain) dribbles past a Roanoke player in a game last season. This year the women have a 2-8 District record.

 

BY ERIN Juuus
.\'POR’l‘S lil)l'l‘()R

Wrestling coach Gary Franke is
celebrating his 30th year of coach-
ing at Washington and Lee this sea-
son. Before coaching at W&L,
Franke had a long and varied wres-
tling career.

“I didn’t have the size for bas-
ketball or football, but wrestling
gives you some equality there,”
said Franke. “The unique thing in
college is that we have 10 weight
classes, so everyone has a place.
We have a 125 pound guy who of
course never faces bigger guys.
Also, wrestling appeals to young-
sters who are deaf or blind and
there are very few other sports
where they could compete at that
level.”

Franke competed as a wrestler for
four years in high school and then
another four at Minnesota State.

“Personally, I thought it was a
great opportunity to travel to dif-
ferent schools to the state tourna-
ment. In college, I traveled all over
the country and it was nice expo-
sure to different campuses and dif-

nke celebratesthirty years 0 g

ferent parts of the country,” said
Franke. “Then I spent a couple
more years doing Freestyle inter-
national and a little Greco-Roman
wrestling.

Aﬁer college, Franke was drafted
into the Army and wrestled for the All-
Anny team. “That’s how I got involved
with the World Military Champion-
ships,” he said.

“I traveled then too—— I
wrestled in the World Military games
in Turkey,” he said. Franke then ful-
filled his military obligation by
coaching at West Point, “then the
wrestling coach at W&L resigned,
and I was offered a job. I was then
the youngest wrestling coach in
America at 23”.

In 1979, Franke took over the ten-
nis team. Under Franke, the Men’s
Tennis team was National runner-up
in 1986 and 1987. In 1988, W&L won
the tennis Division III Championship.
Franke was National Division III
Coach of the Year. Franke gave up
coaching the tennis team two years
ago.

“He’s a good coach, a nice guy,
and he deserves some credit,” said
wrestling captain Alexander Poor.

 inseam B‘{H'lRﬂl1S,SU A no

   
 
 
 

MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 2003 ,
iv

Y

      
  
 
  
    

I’H()T(l COLl{1‘l1\YTllEC»ILlX PHOIOCOUKIB'.llI1'.lZDL‘
Now AND THEN. Gary Franke has held a number of coaching positions during his 30 years at Washington and Lee. In 1981 (left), he coached both rnen’s tennis and
wrestling, while in 2003 (right) he coaches only wrestling. Franke has also been a PE. tennis coach for years.

 

I

Sports Events .
January 20-27 

Wrestling

W&L wrestling will take on McDaniel in a quad
meet Saturday, Jan. 25 at 11 am. at McDaniel.

Men’s Basketball

The team has a game on Wednesday Jan. 22 at
7 pm at home against Emory & Henry

Saturday, Jan. 25, the team will face Virginia
Wesleyan in a game played at Virginia Wesleyan at
3 pm.

Sunday, Jan. 26 the team will face Randolph-
Macon in a game played at R-M at 3 pm.

Women’s Basketball

The team has a game Friday, Jan. 24 in a game
played at home against Hollins at 7 pm.

On Saturday, Jan. 25, the team will play at Emory
& Henry at 4 pm.

Swimming

The teams have a meet at home against
Gettysburg on Saturday, Jan. 25 at 2 pm.

On Sunday, Jan. 26, the Women’s team has a
meet at Radford at 12 pm.

  

Seats five, has 53 cubic
feet uticarga space, and
is available with 180 hp
and a 8-speed manual
shift. Even revolution
carft fully explain 
W12 T.€}=”u'Olrl Mil  U5 lt... 1%.  LE!
D821. .F{'B lit-‘JEE
"  villi!  FEE; Bt§U.E3ES W.

 5, teens; can-as llllﬂ neeewtga ._  
 min.  rm rant fern.

    

 

 

   
 

  Before lastweekenitheunlv

  thing had ever burnedwasact].  
Although fire fighters do everythinigtheilican toiiillireverﬁl  I  I 
bums, more than 2.5 million bum iniuries occur ill, ,  A

North America each year. Most could be preventecjc FIRE";

To learn more about our “Don’t Get Bu’_r_nec_lf’ : Humans »
campaign. please visit wyvvy.,lAFFl3urn_l=_ur}_d.orgg*

   

  
 

   





. ‘<23’

This message is brought to youiby the lnterriatlonal Assoiciatidin
. of Fire Fighters. Harold A. Schaitberger, General Preside_n’tj_

   
  

 

 
 

