   

  
 
   
  
   
    
     
  
    
   
   
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
   
    
   
 
   
   
    
   
 

1 ‘Bionic’ surgery successful at Stonewall J

or ALICE STEINBACH-KIRWAN
ASSISTANT OPINIONS EDITOR

Fearing reprisals for his unpopular abolishrnent of Spring
erm, University President Tom Burish recently underwent
an experimental procedure to dramatically alter his physique.
“Behold the Overman,” Burish intoned at yesterday’s
mess conference, his bass voice now six octaves deeper
- than the previous mezzo-soprano.
_ Burish currently stands nine feet four inches tall, with
two additional arms and an extra head. He weighs 667
4 ounds, which, he assured reporters, “was all beefcake.”
“Sure, I tried Creatine, Pilates, Power-Yoga, but noth-
ing seemed to work,” Burish said. “I didn’t have the muscle
mass to be an effective president. It was embarrassing at
faculty meetings when (University Provost) Larry (Boetsch)
a d to put me on his shoulders so everyone could see me.”

Prior to his operation, Burish stood ﬁve feet seven
inches and weighed in at 120 pounds.

The surgery, the ﬁrst of its kind, was performed in the
- dvanced Experimental Ward of Stonewall Jackson Hospital.
“Most people don’t realize how advanced Stonewall
Jackson really is,” said University Physician Jane Horton.
The surgery, while partially successful, did not fulﬁll
all of Washington Hall ’s expectations: Burish remains un-
le to ﬂy, shoot eye-lasers or deliver compelling speeches.
“All the same, it’s amazing what was accomplished,”

, said Horton, who supervised the procedure.

“We harvested body parts from Larry Boetsch, (Dean
Students) David Howison, (Dean of the College) Tom
illiains and (Philosophy Professor) Eduardo Velasquez.
‘ ough their deaths were regrettable, the whole is cer-
inly greater than the sum of its parts,” Horton said.

Of special interest is Boetsch’s head, which helps
ordinate the movements of Burish’s ﬁve-foot legs. In
,, e of damage to the primary cranium, Boestch’s head
assume temporary control of the body.

“I applaud President Burish’s bold move,” said
oetsch’s head. “He is truly an inspired leader who will
V ow W&L to move to the next level.”

_ , “Very little can stop Me now,” Burish agreed, extend-

    
   
    
  
  
  
     
   
   
   
 
 

th.”

Burish’s surprising move has caught opponents un-
‘pared. Already many Lexington locals have taken to
- rshipping Burish as a god, leaving burnt offerings at
. Lee House residence.

Burish appears pleased with recent developments.
“My will be done,” he said.

     
   
    
   
   
   

BY Lucius ]uNius DESHA

   
   
    
    
   
  
  
  

‘ ool Washington and Grant Univer- this under the ra

    
     
   
  
   
   

s time to shake things up.”

   
     
   
 
   
  
   
 
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
    
   
   
   
  

somehow intervene.

    
     
    
     
  
  
  

on at a recent press conference. He was referring to

  
   
   
   
  
   
   
   

ence that is alcohol at Washington and Lee Univer-

    
    
  

,adamanti.ne.c1aws..thr0ugh  sight-hand. i‘rhe_i3oa.rds  I
Faculty, the Student Body-alliwill gcower before My

one. It is a natural progression for this
BUSINESS MNAGER great institution. When I said in my
inaugural speech that the only thing I
I _ In a historic moment in Washing- would not consider changing was the
nandLee Universityhistory, President Honor System, I wasn’t kidding.”
m Burish announced today that ef- Student response has yet to be
' 've immediately, he has renamed the gauged, as Burish has managed to “ﬂy
,” in the words of
. Said Burish, “In light of the changes one dissenting University official who
eseekto aocomplishatW&L. . .,Imeari, requested anonymity, “thus, not too
&G; it presents a far more appropriate many people know yet.” However, an
V d politically correct image to the out- information campaign hehned by sev-
1 ~ world. Besides, it’s been over 125 eral members of the student body aims
since we last changed our name; to enlighten the entire campus of the
change. The campaign will be headed
This shocking announcement by former BC president John “no I
mes hard on the heels of another sur- didn’t cheat” Comly.
, ise recently sprung on the University Said sophomore Jackson Forrest
mmunity, that Spring Term will be Hunter IV, “I just found out about this
' ' - deffective as of the 2003-2004 awful news from [Phil] a couple of min-
: cademic year. Student outrage to the utes ago. I can’t believe Burish would
.. oposal was so vociferous that yells do this.” He has promised that he and
.v protest outside Washington Hall his fellow “rebel brothers” from the
couldbe heard as far awayas Wal-Mart, Kappa Alpha Order will wage war
where students held a similar protest. against the “Northem impostor who
‘s protest was an attempt to appeal has hijacked this ﬁne school.” He ex-
to the greater Lexington population to claimed, “The war’s not over yet, and
the latest battle has just begun!”
Burish explained, “This move Burish also announced another,
' should not come as a surprise to any- slightly less controversial move: he

 

 005 H 1- 1/771

&L renamed Washington and Grant

is installing an automatic garage door ing a couple of alumni to explain the
opener for the Lee House garage. This situation and to ask them to write us
decision is following an incident in another check with the new name, but
the beginning of the year in which he they just hung up on me. Actually, I
tried to shut the doors and student think this one guy had a heart attack
outrage quickly prompted him to open and dropped to the ﬂoor, because it
them again. Burish resolved that he sounded more like a ‘thump’ than a
would ﬁnd a way to ensure that his ‘click’ when the conversation ended.”
vehicles will be protected from the el- When asked whether he thought
ements. Said Burish, “Renaming the of consulting students about the
school is the perfect way to ensure change and its potential conse-
that Traveller can’t come home, so it quences, Burish replied, “Student
doesn’tmatter anymore. Besides, [my voices only serve as a rubber stamp,
wife] Pam and I miss being able to click anyway. It really wasn ’t necessary
that little button and watching the and I wanted to get this put through
doors open and close for us. Now we before the end of my ﬁrst year. Any-
can. And anyway, doesn’t moderniz- way, in four years’ time, it will be an
ing the house a little bit just lend extra entirely new student body and no-
ﬂair to ourwhole progressive theme?” body will remember this whole af-
In related news, Robert W.H. fair.”

Mish, Director of Alumni Affairs, re- That remains to be seen: protestor
ports having trouble depositing this Comly has vowed to stay on indeﬁ-
month’s batch of checks from alumni. nitely, and even join forces with ever-
He said, “All of the checks are made angry alumnus David Keeling if nec-
out to ‘Washington and Lee,’ so when essary. Said Comly, “Look, man, I’m
I went to First Union earlier this aﬁer- not going to put up with this
noon to try and deposit these, they bull****. Who does Burish think he
refused because the name on the ac- is, anyway? If you don’t believe in
count is now ‘Washington and Grant.’ Washington and Lee traditions, please
I don’t know what to do. I tried call— leave NOW!”

Lex Po cracks down on student a

cohol

RING

 
 

rig
AMAZING BUT TRUE. In an amazing display on the Front Lawn this weekend, Young’s troops captured

the recently-reﬁgured Burish and are alledgedly forcing him to cage—dance in the Mason—New Room.

Special: APRIL FOOLS DAY ISSUE

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

" HI-TUM

T/yr rfurirllf mile of Washington curl Lee Uuiurrrihpriurr 7897 (D Orr/rile of: ,ohi.zr/lu.eriu

NG DEFEATS BURISH    

Young overthrows ‘Bionic’

VOLUME CV, N o.XXV
TUESDAY, APRIL 1,2003

Burish; names himself president-for-life

BY MATTIE BUTLER-SWORDS
EDITOR IN BETROTHAL

In a morning coup d’etat, Mike
Young, former director of University
Security, overthrew former-President
Tom Burish and appointed himself
“president-for-life.”

Young, who also awarded him-
self the Rectorship of the Board of
Trustees, the Alumnus of the Year
Award (First Class) and the rank of
F ield-Marshall of the Rockbridge
County Sheriﬁ°’s ofﬁce, addressed
crowds on the Washington Hall bal-
cony.

“Washington and Lee was a fes-
tering heap of decadence, falling ﬁve
places in the U.S. News and World
Reports rankings in six years,” Young
said. “I rechristen this place the
‘Young World University,’ which will
regain its former greatness through
the sheer force of one man’s iron will.”

Duke-Colonel Steve Tomlinson,
formerly assistant director of Univer-
sity Security, claims that Youngist
forces control nearly all of the Uni-
versity grounds.

“There are still a few reactionar-
ies sending sporadic ﬁre from out of
the Physical Plant building,”
Tomlinson said. “The napalm drops
in two hours.”

Young seized power after build-
ing a coalition between his elite W&L
security ofﬁcers and the VMI cadet
corps, which swore allegiance to him
after being promised the inhabitants
of two of W&L’s ﬁve sororities.

Though many were surprised at
the palace coup ’s speed, others claim
to have regularly monitored his weap-
ons build-up.

“We’ve been aware for years that
Mike (Young) has been creating poi-
son gas,” said Debra Kling, secretary
in the Treasurer’s Ofﬁce. “Anyone

who’s sat near him during one of his
Co-op lunches can tell you that.”

Burish, easily captured during his I

usual morning rim, is believed to be a

cage-dancer in the Mason New Room, ‘

now renamed “The President—for-
Life’s Palace of Pain and Pleasure.”

“No more dancing,” the former
president begged. “Please, no more
dancing.”

Burish has fared better than
many in his irmer circle, many of whose
skulls now form a commemorative
pyramid in front of Young Chapel.
Others have been consigned to harsh
labor, supplementing the building
crews already at work on the new
Young Commons for the Harmonious
Reeducation of the Students.

Lexington, an economic depen-
dent of W&L, has already pledged
loyalty, renaming all of its streets af-
ter Young, his hunting dogs and his
favorite NASCAR racers.

Former Mayor Clemp Dudley has
been replaced by Cletus Didley, a
member of the Youngist Party.

“Finally, I can shoot parking vio-
lators on sight,” said Marquis-Lieu-
tenant Thomas ‘Baner’ Bane,” for-
merly a Security Office sergeant. “Ver-
ily, a great and glorious day has
arisen.”

Yellowbrick Road, a neighboring
pre-school, has formed Lexington’s
first Young-Youth group, which
marches in uniform, chanting pro-
Young slogans.

Despite these developments,
conﬁdants of the new president-for-
life are preparing for insurgency.

Fearing possible assassination
attempts from Burish-loyalists, Young
has ordered the creation of body-
doubles. Master of the Presidential

’ Kitchens Alexandre da Silva has been

overseeing the candidates’ force-feed-
ing and scalp-waxing.

«vmaﬂ news briefs to

 

 

Datz crowns himself Unsung General of the Year

William “Burr” Datz, chairman of the Student Success Committee, be-
stowed the John Elrod Un-Sung General Award on himself in a lavish cer-

emony this past Saturday.

The award, named aﬁer the previous W&L president, carries a $500

prize.

Industry insiders claim the move was not unexpected.

“Don’t tell anyone this, but Burr (Datz) hasn’t had a university pay-
check in ﬁve months,” said Panhellenic advisor Theresa Glassman. “Dean
(of Students David) Howison had to let him go after no one went to his

leadership training seminars.

“He really needed the money.”

Several of Datz’s associates insist the award is fair.

“Can you think of a man less-recognized on campus?” asked IFC advi-
sor Matt Jacobs ’O2. “No one knows what he does. Hell, I’ve been working
with him for a year, and I still don’t know what he does.”

Datz insists, however, that he did not “buck” for the award.

“To be honest, I’ve been promoting myself as much as I could,” Datz
said. “Look at my hair, my canes, my odd nickname—I’ve been screaming

for attention.”

Although most of the $500 prize was spent in a post-award celebration
at the Palms, Datz said he will use the remainder to buy a statue of himself

for St. Patrick’s Catholic Church.

Washington and Lee changes name to Washington and Lee

By Amy CANDERSON truth is, we had believed that it was perfectly legal
Cm EDITOR for anyone 18 and up to drink any sort of alcohol,”
said Ray. “In fact, we thought it was legal for an
“We’ve had enough, quite frankly, and it’s time for 18-year old to be drunk in public while carrying

' to stop,” said Dobert Ray, Sheriﬂf of the City of Lex- around two bottles of malt liquor.”
“But one day, not too long ago, I had a dream, a
 the commonusage of alcohol onthe W&L campus. “Beer dream in which that chick from the Virginia State Sea],
in public areas, students bragging about their level of you know, the one with the spear and the sword stand-
' intoxication, I teH you it’s ridiculous. Why, my sources ing over that one dude, you know who I’m talking
I a - say that Greek organization even advertise the fact about. Anyway, she said to me, ‘Dobert, alllllllcohol
. they have grain alcohol to ﬁeshmen during ms .” laws, check the allllllllcohol lawwwwwssss! ! ! ’ So I
, Ray promised quick and decisive action to end woke up that morning and started thumbing through

hat he called the “problem, nay, I daresay pesti- the Virginia laws on alcohol.”

But that wasn’t the only part of Ray’s revela-
I .” However, he also acknowledged that the “pes- tion. “I was looking through it, and lo and behold,
I tilence” had already gone on for far too long. “The it was illegal to be drunk in public. All the guys

down at the station were absolutely shocked. I re-
member Oﬂicer Mith-say said ‘It’s ILLEGAL for any-
one under 21 to drink!! Can you believe that??! !”

However, despite shock and amazement at the
newfound rules, Ray promises to stop the thousands
of lawbreakers at W&L. “We will have oﬂicers at Frat
parties every night to ensure that underage drinkers
are stopped. We will work with W&L security to make ”
sure that the freshmen dorms are completely alcohol phatter’ more funky appeal’
free. And if the Greek organizations do not relent to
our zealous law enforcement, we may have to monitor
their purchases to keep them from buying alcohol.”

Ray concluded the press conference by say-
ing “It’s important that we take these steps now.
After all, nothing builds disrespect for the law faster
than letting it go unenforced.”

In an effort to improve the W&L’s image with minority high school
students, Board of Trustees Rector Frank Surface announced the college’s
ﬁfth name change since its founding in 1749.

“Washington and Lee no longer stands for George.Washington and
Robert E. Lee,” Surface said. “We have renamed it for (actor) Denzel Wash-
ington and (director) Spike Lee.”

“To be frank, having a college named aﬂer two slave-holders doesn’t
really help us ‘connect’ to young African Americans,” said Director of
Admissions William Hartog. “The administration decided we needed a

“By choosing two black entertaimnent ﬁxtures, we hope to more readily
appeal to that demographic,” Hartog said.
Current busts and likenesses of the two generals will be removed inApril.
Replacement images of Washington, 47, and Lee, 53, should be up soon after.
“On the plus side, we don’t need to change our stationary,” Surface said.
Surface also expressed hopes that alumni would not notice the change
until aﬁer the Summer Phone-a-thon.

 

  

 

'l.‘.l.i__E:. PHr~'rj‘uM RING

TUESDAY, APRIL 1, 2003

PRIL FOOLS

End of p Te means ﬁve ne sororities

lFlLEl)l{O'l0

RECRUITMENT ROCKS! Sorority recruitment won’t be as easy as these Theta sisters had it Five new srats will ratchet up the competition

BY Misnr Goc
STAPH \\"RIn3R

Washington and Lee’s sorority
row is going to be a bit more crowded
next year. Five new sororities will be
joining the ranks of our ﬁve well-es-
tablished ones beginning in the fall
of 2003. Panhellenic and the W&L
Greek community are proud to wel-
come Delta Delta Delta, Delta Gamma,
Sigma Sigma Sigma, Sigma Kappa, Phi
Mu, and Delta Zeta, to our hallowed
halls.

The decision to invite these
chapters to colonize was made at last
week’s meeting of the Panhellenic
Council aﬁer much deliberation. “We
discussed the possible outcomes of
this decision for hours,” says Direc-
tor of Student Activities and Panhell
Advisor Teresa Glassman, “but in the
end, we decided that the pros deﬁ-

nitely outweighed the cons. Come
one, come all!”

The reasons for this startling an-
nouncement are based mostly upon
the quota system implemented dur-
ing sorority rush. According to this
system, the number of girls going
through recruitment is divided by the
number of houses, thus deciding the
size of each pledge class. For example,
when 200 girls enter the rush process
and there are ﬁve houses, each house
has a quota of 40 new members. How-
ever, with the ﬁve new chapters on
campus, quota will be reduced to 20.
This will present the females in the
Greek system with numerous advan-
tages.

For one thing, smaller pledge
classes will mean more intimacy. The
new members will get to know each
other much better than they currently
do. It will also be signiﬁcantly easier

for new members and initiated sisters
to become well acquainted with one
another. “There’s often a gulf between
the upperclassmen and new members.
The lowered quotas will ﬁx this prob-
lem, y’all,” says Suzy Clark Wellington-
Smythe, a junior who did not wish to
reveal her sorority afﬁliation.

Lowered quota will assure that
everyone will make quota, as each
house can surely find twenty girls that
they ﬁnd acceptable. Glassman stated
that she is particularly excited about
this aspect of it. “With ten sororities,
every young woman will be sure to
ﬁnd her own special place. This way,
we can guarantee that nobody falls
through. With so many choices, how
can you go wrong?”

The question now arises as to
how to house these new sororities.
Clearly, each chapter must be given
an equally impressive ediﬁce to call

  

home. “It wouldn’t be fair to give Chi
O, Theta, KD, Kappa and Pi Phi the
largest and best houses simply be-
cause they were lucky enough to get
here ﬁrst,” says Panhell Council mem-
ber Lee Taylor Barton, “We need to
ﬁnd a way to allocate sorority re-
sources as fairly as possible.”

Fortunately, the need for a read-

justment of Frank Parson’s Way comes
at a very auspicious time for
Panhellenic. The President and his min-
ions are on the brink of abolishing
Spring Term while proposing a mas-
sive tuition increase. These changes
will result in a marked increase in Uni-
versity funds. President Burish stated
that “We have two options for all of
this money we will be receiving. We
can either use it to actively recruit a
student body that will hate W&L and
transfer, thus saving us more money,
or we can use it to build ﬁve new so-
rority palaces for the srat lords to in-
habit.” Glassman feels certain that
Panhell can use their collective femi-
nine wiles to persuade the adrninistra-
tion to adopt the latter proposal.

The plan now, if Panhell does
procure said funds, is to bulldoze the
five standing houses and build ten
smaller ones, all of which will be iden-
tical in size and structure. However,
the insides will each be painted in the
sorority’s colors. “The new houses
will be absolutely darling and so much
fun!” said Glassman.

The men of W&L are meeting the
upcoming invasion of the sororities
with mixed reviews. “On the one hand,
our odds of scoring at mixers will be
greatly increased, as we will have
twice as many of these mixers each
year. On the other han we’ll be forced
to deal with double the number of
freshman girls screaming songs about
their new sororities on the morning
after bid night. It will be a mixed bless-
ing,” says sophomore fraternity mem-
ber Johnson Anderson Howard VII.

The Greek community of Wash-
ington and Lee is anxious to see how
these new chapters will adjust to life
here. Says Glassman, “We’re enter-
ing a new era here at W&L, one of
universal peace and love for all on
Frank Parson’s Way.”

  
    
  
   
 
   
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
  
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
   
  
   
   
   
  
  
   
    
   
   
   
   

MORE GEN

Kappa Kapppa Gamma/ construction crew mixer a success j I

Saturday’s ﬁrst-ever mixer between W&L’s Kappa Kappa Gamma and
Lexington business Beetcherﬁeld Construction went “marvelously,” accord- ~
ing to L. Treadway Devon, KKG president. 

“It’s about time we fmally saw men with muscles,” Devon said. “W&Lw
boys are just so scrawny.”

The mixer was held in the Kappa sorority house, which required the sus-
pension of several of Panhellenic’s regulations, including the prohibition on
alcohol.

“I think it’s for a good cause,” said Panhellenic advisor Theresa Glassmari
“At W&L, we try to help our students understand people from all backgrounds, i
even the really poor and sucky ones.” ‘

At yesterday’s chapter meeting, Devon announced plans to mix with the
local Kiwanis lodge. W

“Sorry, 0lV&L fraternity Sigma Alpha Epsilon), you’re no longer the only
game in town.”

Burish to install electric doors on garage

Betsy Cossaboon armounced on behalf of President Burish that bids are
being accepted for installation of modern, electric doors for the Lee House
Garage. ’

“The President wants to protect his automotive investments and is tired
of those pesky cats,” said Cossaboon is a sparsely attended DuPont Audito-
rium announcement held during Wednesday’s Spring Term forum. “Tommy
didn’t want anyone to know about this, either,” she added in response to a
question from local resident John “Johnnie” Blackmann.

Pressed as to the whereabouts of Traveller’s ghost, Cossaboon responded
“That old hag has long ago been sent to glue factory.”

Bids for door installation are due outside Carol Calkin’s office in the Uni-
versity Center by 5 p.m. Friday.

Decagon vows to rival Cadavers in creepiness "
W&L’s co-eds finally have an answer to the male-only Cadaver Society.
This week the Decagon held its ﬁrst secret meeting and promised that, i

the areas of papering the campus with brightly-colored leaﬂets and sprz J

painting Wilson Field, women’s voices would no longer be stiﬂed. Mai

Chantilly Beauregard, Grand Poohbette of the Decagon, speaking on conci A

tion of anonymity, said, “For too long, boys have had all the fun with mystc ;

rious secret meetings, creepy anonymity and campus notoriety. With the Dec.
gon, my sisters and I promise to bring a women’s perspective to leaﬂet dI'0] ~
and spray art. Plus, women bring an artistic touch that is missing from tl.
boring “C” and skull symbol of the Cadavers.” ‘
The Decagon reported that it plans to raise funds for the construction 0.

a new bridge across the ravine. “Girls shouldn’t have to scrape their heels c

that hideous concrete mish-mash,” spat High Prietess of Philanthropy, Allis

Claudette Brightley Smithton.

Learning Enlightening Girl Students (LEGS) President Susan C. Amaz
approved, “It’s time that W&L closed the gender campus creepiness gap."

\

 

“My new bionicly-enhancedbody will allow
Me to destroy Spring Term and the Greeks

unchecked.”

~ex-PresidentBu1ish, before his surgery
atStonewall Jackson Hospital

te of the Week

Editor s Note: General Lee stopped spinning in grave

THE PHI-TUM RING

just long enough to pen this piece for the Phi.

Founder



J. the Ripper, 1898L

When Torn Burish succeeded me as University Presi-
dent last July, I was conﬁdent that the traditions I had
both initiated and continued would be properly stewarded.
I was nearly certain that the principles which governed
my brief, but inﬂuential, administration
would be carried into the 2 1 st century. Af-
ter all, Burish was groomed at Vanderbilt,
a fine Southern university its own right.

PINIONS

Lee: Burish is destroying my school

One hard-earned lesson from the battleﬁeld is that communi-
cation is essential to the success of any campaign. Burish has
alienated students and alumni by not involving them in the
decision process or even informing them that Spring Term was
under consideration. No doubt, many of them thought the
issue was decided after last year’s faculty vote.

Other key features of my administration were the mod-
ernization of the curriculum and the cre-
ation of the Journalism School. Today,
Spring Tenn allows W&L to boast an im-
_____ROBERT   mense and varied catalog and to offer pro-

PRESIDENT, 1865-70

Editor in chief
Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Photo Editor
Sports Editor
Asst. News Editor
Photographer

Power Trippin’

I LuvU, Hilary
TakesitdowntoParad'seCity
Good Friend Haynes
Picas? Is that a Frat?
Lord of the Swords

Didn’t De-pledge!

Copy Editor Doesn’t Come to the Oﬂice

Business Manager Uncle Cletus
Circulation Director Get Well Soon!
Advertising Assistant ?

The Phi-tum Ring is published once a year during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board is owned by the Editor in chief and The
Phi-tum Ring otherwise rules the school.

The Phi-tum Ring welcomes all irresponsible submis-
sions and letters. Submission is in the University Center mail-
box at 5 pm. every Friday. Pictures appear in the following
week’s edition. The Phi-tum Ring deserves the right to broad-
cast submission for fun and proﬁt. Letters and columns prob-
ably reﬂect the opinion of The Phi-tum Ring, especially ones
from crazy “alumni.” We don’t get advertising, because Uncle
Cletus ain’t too bright. This newspaper laughs in the face of
current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Phi-tum Ring
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: ring@wlu.edu
http://ring.wIu.edu

   

Annual Subscription Rate: One Meeellyon Dollars

 

Although the beginning of his term
began less than auspiciously when he shut the doors to
my garage, preventing Traveller’s ghost from entering his
stall, the rest of his term has been an unexpected and
unprecedented train wreck. It began more than 100 years
after the end of my tenure, but Spring Term is, without
doubt, one innovation that has pleased me to no end.

At the conclusion of the War of Northen Aggression,
I ﬁelded offers from throughout the country to head cor-
porations, speak to organizations and lead many universi-
ties. I chose Washington College because education was
the surest way to bring together a nation ripped asunder.
I strived to make Washington College a national univer-
sity so young men from the South and the North could be
educated as the next generation of leaders of a united
people. Burish’s ill-considered actions threaten to tear
apart a University dedicated to national unity.

Regardless ofhis feelings about the value of Spring Term,
he has grossly mismanaged the public relations of the issue.

 
 

 
 

“Burish is best.”
-Erin Julius, brainwashed

  

 
 

grams, such as Washington Term, music
trips to London, art trips to Italy, and ﬁnance trips to Ger-
many, which furﬂrer enrich the curriculum. Eliminating Spring
Term would greatly impinge on the University’s ability to
offer the varied curriculum I began to build 138 years ago.
Finally, so many colleges and universities through-
out the nation are working to ﬁt a mold deﬁned by “The
Princeton Review” or “U.S. News and World Report’s”
rankings. W&L has always been a unique and special
institution that attracts young men, and now women, dif-
ferent from the cookie-cutter students at Amherst and
Swarthmore. Next to the Honor System, few aspects of the
school define it more completely than Spring Term. To
remove it now, especially for ﬁnancial reasons, would be
disastrous to a well-earned reputation for difference.
I think General Washington would join me in coun-
seling Burish that one should never let money make one ’s

decisions.

  Wouldyou rather have world  

 

“Boo world peace. :4 ,,
-Brett Kirwan,
cranky conservative

-Katie Howell ‘04

Thomas, watch carefully how you govern my school. with the Phi outside Lee Chapel this past Wednesday.

  
    
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
   
 
  
  
  
 
    
      
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
      

' Goo Plum; Hiwns TheP/ri-t1mIRirr,g '
DEAD MEN DO "rm TALES. General Lee in his interviei’

 
 
  
    
    

“ﬁnitel OT
Asher Simcoe.”
-Kate Guy, ‘04

“Like, duh, Spring Term.”
-Jeb! Brooks ‘05

