WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

ING-TUl\/l

VOLUME CV, NO.XV1ll
MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 2005

 

lloestrrderitrnrberi/‘Washington omdlee UniverSitysirIce1897<D Onlinent.-pbr'.wlu.edu

.Virginia bill may redeﬁne hazing for universi ies, es ablish more penal ies  

BY WILLIAM COPSEY
Tl-IE COLLEGIATE TIMES (VIRGINIA TECH)

‘ |(U-WIRE) BLACKSBURG,
Va. - A bill seeking to give universi-
ties more leeway in their prosecution
of those convicted of hazing passed

‘through a Virginia House of Delegates
subcommittee by a unanimous vote
Wednesday.

The bill also expands the deﬁni-
tion of hazing, allowing Virginia to

‘prosecute a wider range of offenses.

Members of university student
affairs ofﬁces across the state assisted
in the construction of the bill, which
was then presented to state delegate
David Albo, R-Springﬁeld, said Ed
Spencer, assistant vice president of
student affairs and director of Resi-
dential and Dining Programs at Virginia
Tech.

The existing Virginia hazing law
is very brief and speciﬁc compared to
other states, Spencer said. As it
stands, Virginia law also states that

bodily injury must result from haz-
ing in order for a person to press
charges or sue, he said.

The new bill’s redeﬁnition of haz-
ing widens it to allow the state to pros-
ecute not only for actual bodily harm
caused by such activity, but also on the
basis of recklessly or intentionally en-
dangering someone’s health or safety.

“We thought that there ought to
be a deﬁnition ofhazing (included in
the bill),” Spencer said.

This should assist campuses in

preventing and reducing the number
of hazing incidents, said Will Wright,
president of Tech’s Interfraternity
Council.

Part of the problem with Virginia’s
present hazing law is that it compels
universities to expel any student con-
victed of hazing, Spencer said.

Because the severity of hazing can
range widely, from rug burns to paraly-
sis, people should not face the same
penalty of expulsion for both, he said.

The new bill will correct this prob-

lem, he said, allowing universities to 1

exercise more discretion in the pros-

ecution of hazing.

“It is my belief that further deﬁn-
ing the term ‘hazing’ will ensure that
it is eliminated in all shapes and forms
on (Tech’s) campus,” Wright said.

Although the bill before the Gen-
eral Assembly widens the deﬁnition
of hazing, Spencer said members of
the group thatlworked on the bill
wanted the definition to be even
longer and more inclusive.

Spencer said he didn’t think haz-
ing is prevalent at Tech, but because
it usually takes place behind closed
doors, rumors of hazing are taken se-
riously and investigated. It is now up
to the Virginia House’s Courts of J us-
tice Committee to review and vote on
the bill, said Bobby Rust, Albo’s leg-
islative aide.

Committees typically mirror the
decisions of subcommittees, Rust
said, and are expected to pass the bill
on to the entire House.

v

DIAMONDS ARE A GIRI.’S BEST FRIEND

, onors l\/ILK

BY Km: WASS
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

     
  
  
  
  
 

‘JEB BRoOI<s/ 7beRing—tum Phi
NIARTIN, THE MAN. Roger Wilkins spoke of non—violence.

Washington and Lee University and the Lexington-
'Rockbridge County community celebrated the life of Mar-
tin Luther.King, Jr. last week with ﬁlm showings, speakers,
1 d free birthday cake in the Co—op.q ,

Numerous events took place Jan. 15-23 and to-
day. Last Wednesday, Jan. 15, was King’s actual
birthday, and the Minority Student Association
sponsored birthday cake in the Snack Bar, while the
Dining Hall held a Memorial Dinner, where dining
services served a menu of King’s favorite dishes,
‘(including “Georgia-style sweet potato pie.” Later
on Monday night, the Minority Student Associa-
tion also showed the movie Boycott, in Northen Au-
ditorium. Later in the week, PRIDE sponsored the
‘movies The Pinochet Case (2001), Justzfiable Ho-
micide (2001), and Proﬁt and Nothing But! (2001)
during their “Human Rights Film Festival,” from Jan.

21-23.

    
   

BY CALEY ANDERSON
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

Washington and Lee’s Alsos Digital Library
for nuclear issues is now a National Science
Teachers’ Association recommended Web site.
It will be featured in the NSTA’s SciLinks data-
Kbase, a listing of sites which the NSTA consider

helpful. The Alsos site, whose URL is http://
alsos.wlu.edu, is a library of annotated docu-
ments and resources related to nuclear issues.
. .It contains information on books, ﬁlms, images,
other websites, CD-ROMs and periodicals.
The site’s content is created by a wide
range of faculty and students whose interests
relate to the documents available on the site.
- XDT. Frank Settle of the Chemistry department
leads the site. Another contributor and annota-
tpr is Dr. Elizabeth Blackmer, a staff member at

BY IMRAN NAEEMULLAH

CONTRIBUTING EDITOR
I‘ Courtney Penn is always dressed sharply,
and with his imposingly tall frame, Penn could
.'pass for a football coach
dressed as he would be for the
’ii)ig game. Yet Penn is a bas-
ketball man, not a football
man, and he is the Associate
-Dean of Students, specializ-
»(ing in upperclassman housing
‘and multicultural affairs. A
graduate of Washington &
Lee from the Class of 1992,
Penn’s involvement with Washington and Lee
?dates back well over a decade. Of course, grow-
ing up in Virginia and having his father as an

PENN

 

Washington and Lee also joined the Lexington-
*'Rockbridge community to bring several speakers to cel-

 

AMERICAN Inor. A freshmen Chi Omega and member of the winning act looks out into
the audience at the Student Activities Pavillion Friday night during the annual Lip Synch

SEE MLK, PAGE 2 .

   

fundraiser. Approximately 1000 people attended the event, which raises money to provide
canned foods to the hungry of Rockbridge County.

_lEB BROOI<S/ TbeRing4um Pb:

~Site gains nat’l attention

the Virginia Military Institute. The actual Web
maintenance of the site is conducted primarily
by Computer Science department faculty, led by
Dr. Tom Whaley. On site, a large listing of nuclear
issue-related information, complete with refer-
ences and annotation from Washington and Lee
staff, is provided. The site’s name is derived
from a U.S. Army project that attempted to dis-
cover the extent of the German nuclear weapons
research program during Allied offensives in
World War II.

The listing of any Web site as a recom-
mended web resource by the NSTA comes only
when the website is “authoritative, interactive,

. and unique,” according to NSTA guidelines.
.Alsos, which has earned these designations,

has largely been able to maintain its high qual-

SEE ALSOS, PAGE 2

Penn sees more diverse campus in future

alumnus of the Class of 1974, Penn has known
about Washington and Lee his entire life. Yet,
his path to W&L has not'been a direct one.
Back in the late l980’s, when Penn was ap-
plying to colleges, he wanted to play Division 1
basketball, and the top schools that he was look-
ing at were the Naval Academy, VMI, and a
couple of other schools in the South. As it turned
out, he ended up not wanting to attend the N a-
val Academy, but instead, he focused his ef-
forts on VMI. While at the school one day, he
talked to Verne Canﬁeld, a coach over there who
happened to be an admissions officer at Wash-
ington and Lee as well. Canfield spent some time
talking with Penn, and a lot of time talking with
Penn’s father, and Penn recalls that he thought
Washington and Lee sounded like a nice place to

. SEE PENN, PAGI’, 2

LIGHTS, CAMERA, ACTION

‘ jIaIsBIRx>RS,’ 7bcRIrIg—IumPbz
CHOH’H{. The History Channel ﬂew into town this pastweekendto ﬁlm shots foran
upCrx1Ipirigepist)c1ec>f}Iiv‘0iyLs.I1o0j/LLoc)1 theshciwthatchallerigesliistcxicalarxlnacy
in movies. The episode ﬁ1medatW&Lthis weekendwill explore how historically
correct GodsomdGeriemZg ﬁlrriedir1I£5dr1gtorihi2(X)1,wasatpornayingVl\AIliiie.The
productionoewwasintownforweekendtotaptuietheessenceofbeingacadetat
V1VlI.HeliCoptors couldbe hmrdall overtown Saturday and Sunday. The History
channel was the second major network to ﬁlm in Lexington over the past three
monIhsABCs GoodM0mingAmerziatxoadtastliVeﬁ(Xn1eidngtorimVeIeran’sDay.

Blacks lush, pledge

1 NEWS ANALYSIS BY SHARYN REGAN
STAFF WRITER

One hundred percent of African-American students
that undertook the rush process this year received and
accepted bids to fraternities and sororities, thereby dis-
counting the common attitude that the school’s Greek sys-
tem is racist. This statistic veriﬁes that racial minorities
who make’ the effort to rush can ﬁnd a place within the
Inuch vaunted W&L Greek system.

When examining the problem of racial diversity at
W&L, one may now note that much progress has been
made to integrate the school. Statistics concerning mi-
norities accepted to the school demonstrate that the num-
ber of such students admitted has skyrocketed in com-
parison to past years. Unfortunately, the extremely high
rate of Greek—life participation at W&L has not translated
into more minorities joining fraternities and sororities.

Obviously, not every student, minority or otherwise,
desires to join a fraternity or sorority. Nonetheless, the
fact that the proportion of minority students that even
attempt to rush is way below the total number of minori-
ties at W&L suggests that some sort of obstacle exists.

The school has presented Greek organizations as in-
hospitable toward minorities. The problem may not, how-
ever, be the fraternity system. The school may actually be
at fault. For example, the Minority Student Association
was created to provide group encouragement as well as a
social organization for minority students.’ These assets
have been successful in fostering a supportive environ-
ment at a cost. As a result of MSA, students are essen-
tially segregated from the predominant social scene at
W&L: the Greek system. Washington and Lee is number
three, according to the Princeton Review, on a list of
schools with “Major Frat and Sorority Scene[s].”

Many fraternities possess progressive attitudes
when rushing students and look past a rushee’s skin color.
For the most part, personal qualities are assessed and
fratemity-student compatibility evaluated. Of course, there
are exceptions to this. As Michael Denbow pointed out in

see TOLERANCE, page 2

 

PAGE 2 N

East Asian studies prepares Grccks, bccomcl ,
  more diverse   A

for China-Japan Day  

By MEGAN Mono“ Since China/Japan Day will take place nese and Japanese culture, this day-long his infamous article, some fraternities are unwilling to
SENIOR STAFF WRITER on the same day as the Chinese New Years, program will also allow the W&L commu- admit African—American students into their organiza- I
the day will begin with a presentation on nity an opportunity to learn more about tions, This is a problem, but is it a problem with the
On Saturday, Feb. 1 , Washington and Lee Chinese New Years customs. Other events the facilities of the Department of East entire system or certain fraternities?

 MONDAY. JANUARY 27, 2003

JAN 3 0 2303
PENN, FROM PAGE 1

    

University’s Department of East Asian Lan- will include demonstrations on calligraphy, Asian Studies. Because the Red House is There is still the problem ofthe miniscule num-
guages and Literatures will sponsor the third origami and a presentation by Joyce in a secluded part of campus, few students her of racial minorities who choose to rush_ Thus, .,
annual China—Japan Day. The program will be Overhouser on a type of Japanese ﬂower know about it. As a result, the administra- W&L should encourage these students to have
held from l0tillthreeinthe aftemoon attlieRed arrangement called “ikebana.” Each event tion has been trying to tear it down. How— an open mind, and let them know that their race
House, located between Lee Chapel and the will last approximately half an hour. At ever, for students such as Andrew Heath, is not a barrier when joining if they are inter-
RobertE.LeeEpisoopalChurch, anditwillhave noon, there will be a cooking demonstra- a W&L sophomore who is giving a pre- ested_
[Ole ﬂbennnn avariety of events that includes presentations, tion and sampling in which the chef will sentatipn on Japanese video games, the It was only two years ago that an African- )
nnnpnnnnlnyndbnnknbnllfnr demonstrations and hands-on craﬁs. Sponsors show the audience how to prepare 'Japa- house has a lot of atmosphere and epito- American student, Quincy Springs, was the presi-
n1nGnnnnnnnnnStndnnnnInnnnny90S. hope that by hosting this program, they will nese sushi as well as two Chinese dishes, mizes the Department of East Asian Stud- dent of the lnterfraternity Council, which is an
have an opportunity to reach out both to the dumplings and a dessert called eight trea- ies.” He hopes that by hosting this event elected position, If a minority can obtain such a ‘
go to school and applied that evening. W&L and Lexington communities, exposing sure pudding. there, “students will have a chance to ex- position, there should be little doubt that similar
while at W&L, Penn majored in and educating them on the customs and cul- In addition to providing an oppor- perience the Red House” and realize how students could enter a Greek organization if so 7
psychology but knew from early on that ture of these two East Asian nations. tunity to educate students about Chi- special it is. inclined_

he was interested in entering the ﬁeld n .
of education in some way or another. ‘ N I k h  

After graduation, he worked for   S 6 »,
Lynchbuig Collegeintheir Oﬂice ofAd— MLK, FROM nnnn 1 Memorial Address was held at Lee  

rhlS5l0r1S- While at l-Yhehhurg, he he- Chapel and followed by a candle-
frlehded the Dean 0t Sthdehtea Whe ebrate the events. On Sunday, Janu— light march and reception.

C0hVlheed Pehh that belhg a deah Was ary 19, the First Baptist Church of The week ended today with a      n

in his future, and helped hhh llhe up Lexington hosted Reverend Dr.iP. panel discussion in the Northen

graduate 5eh0°l5- Pehh attended the Vincent Buyck, Sr, ina speech titled Auditorium, titled “The Notion of . 

UhlVerSlt}’ Of Geergla ahd earhlhg a “A Celebration of the Life of Dr. Mar- Fraternity in King’s letter from the .

Master’s degree there. tin Luther King, Jr,” Buyck is the BiiminghamJail.” Dr.HarlanBeckley,    

S0rr1eWhere along the Way, he re’ governor and founder of the Na- Rev. Andrea Comett—Scott and Pas- L *1

Calls gettlhg tegether Wlth Serhe efhls tional College of Complimentary tor LaVert H. Taylor led the discus-

friends frerh W&L days, all Ahlearr Medicine and Sciences Inc sion Beckley is aprofessor at Wash-  5    7 

. ’ - ' : m — 9: 00 m

Arherleah lhales he leeallsa ahd What (NCCMS) in Washington, D.C. ington and Lee. Comett—Scott is the V ( ( P P -

happehed Was, a5 Pehh eharaeterlzed Monday, the following day, was Director of African American Affairs .
ltr a Whlhlhg ahd rheahlhg 5e5Sl0h- He the day King’s birthday is nation- and Pastor of Christ Our Redeemer I
rerherrllleratellllhgdthehl tllllat lf {he}; ally observed, for which Professor Church in Staunton, and Taylor is DOLLY HARDEE TURMAN MEETING ROOM ‘ ‘ ‘ht
Wereh gelhg 0 0 ahyt lhg a 0“ Roger Wilkins spoke at the Memo— Pastor at the First Baptist Church of PRESTON LIBRARY 4

the preblerhs they remembered hem rial Address. Wilkins won a Pulitzer Lexington. The discussion of King’s

W&L, then the)‘ Shehld keep q'~llet- He Prize in 1972 for his Watergate cov— letter from the Birmingham Jail is THE VIRGINIA MILITARY INSTITUTE

th011ghtr10thlr1g rhere Otlt fer a Whlle» erage, and is currently the Clarence sponsored by the Minority Student LEXINGTON» VIRGINIA I
but then heard aheht a J05 Veeahey J. Robinson Professor of History and Association and the Associate
tl1:an‘ll)earr(l)‘}11’tiS\l:feLn:;’lneagplfndétnr American Culture at George Mason Dean of Students. DON ’T MISS THIS OPPOR TUNITY TO VISIT WI TH_
so as A   it as   ‘£2;3$:i:‘i;,5.“ElZ:§Z.iiZt‘e}‘h‘;°£é’,§’§.‘3 P....:::::: 2.1:: .‘:.::?.;::::::.3 JOHN O  OEOROE M BROOKE»  FLOYD H- OONOOV» A
lhte Payhe Hall ington Post, and in addition has “our goal was to provide people with JOHN G’ LELAND’ B‘ DAVID MANN’ AND SPENCER,C' TUCKER‘
Pehh Says he has fehr thlhgs served as Assistant Attorney Gen— three different perspectives — aca-

hetd llke t0 See happeh lh the hext teh eral, chair of the Board of Trustees demic, religious, and spiritual — from
Years at W&L-P Nllrhher ehea he 5aY3a of the Africa America Institute, and which to examine and celebrate
l3 t0 ehehre that the Vast rhalerlty of is a member of the Board of the King’s legacy.”

our traditions are retained and cher— NAACP Legal Defense Fund. The
ished, because he thinks that the at-

mosphere at this school is “unique

 

and something special.” With that ALSOS, FROM PAGE 1 from many perspectives.E Its goal AMPLE OPPORTUNITIES FOR AUDIENCE PARTICIPATION. ‘

said three things Penn would like to . . IS to pmvlde references f0r.the

Sen hnnnnn nnn W&L becoming n 1ty'due to support from the National study of the Manhattan Project AUTOGRAPHED COPIES OF BOOKS AVAILABLE FOR» PURCHASE.

more diverse nnnnnnnn in nvn nn Science Foundation. The NSF pro- and its consequences to a broad A , , . i

S net not .nSt racial] nyr no gyhn vided the original startup grant of audience.[l The materials refer-

ngnyf Stndlnnts nngnnzlng §nn§rn?iS_ $224,000in2000, enabling the site to enced include books, articles,

Suns ihnt wnlbn nfnnnnnnnnnin the go online in 2002. An additional videos, and Web sites.DThe li— D0N9T  THIS  AND TIMELY PRESENTATION‘;

215, nnnnny_ and nnnnnty Students grant of $300,000 was made last Sep- brary strengthens the quality of

who attend Zn have nnnndnd Wnsh_ tember. education by connecting differ-

in ton and Len bnnnrnin nssinnntn Due to its extensive funding ent disciplines, issues, and ideas ,

nbgnnt the School and nngntng jnst as from the NSF, the Alsos website involving nuclear issues as well AMPLE FREE PARKING I

much about it as other W&L students has become In. imegrill part Cifthe a.S rollidlng. restiurces f.Or Sp?-

and alumni. He stresses that he does NSF. S $4°.’;“ll‘°“ Na“°““l 3°““'“°‘°' °‘t‘° ‘l‘5°‘§l‘“°S-‘e .Tl“°' ‘“fe’;‘“g O REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED

not Seek drastic change, just Small Digital Li rary, a collection, of system an searching too s a- *****

nvnlnnnns to make this a more rn_ Web sites similar to Alsos cover— cilitate the exploration of these 1

S nntnd more inclusive and n11_ ing a vast range of scientific top- materials for general readers and FOR INFORMATION: CONTACT PRESTON LIBRARY

p ’ ics designed to cater to the needs specialists alike. EA clear, intui- THE VIRGINIA MILITARY INSTITUTE
around better School’ of t dent nd teach f l tiv rint rfa eall sthe user
While he’s not busy being S.ut S: It egg Eon: en‘ t 6118.6 t in in 0“;

dean, Penn spends his time at home .emen ary SC 00 0 gm ua e S u _ 0 navlga e e I rary' . . Phone: (540) 464-7228/Web Page: www.vmiaa.org/fpl.html ,

ies. In the future, the Alsos site

in Roanoke with his wife, Angela,
and his three-and-a-half—year old
son, Thomas. There’s also another
child on the way; although Penn
does not yet know whether it’s a
boy or a girl, he confessed that
Angela really wants a girl. When
asked how he feels about the rela-

Alsos maintains a high stan— hopes to intergrate an auxiliary Web
dard of quality, stating on-site, site, “Nuclear Connections,”which
that “The library integrates in— will be a faculty resource for teach-
dexed references into a struc- ers and professors who are address- st
tured collection that allows us- ing nuclear issues in all educational
ers to examine nuclear issues levels.

   

 
    

every long commue everyday, ASSISTANT ALUMNI DIRECTOR _
Penn has no complaints. He says _
he finds the drive relaxing, and it FOR ON LINE COMMUNICATIONS
gives him time to decompress and
spend some time with himself, away   M O N   -
hem lt all who knew?» Perhaps , The Washington and Lee Alumni Office announces the opening for the position of Assistant I
fIEI§elSeC:I1?i}gSinagS iliiatos tIii::a(sIiiiE I WI  pay  for you r phone book Alumni Director for On-Line Communications. Responsibilities include: oversight of “Colonnade
Set’ h 6,11 hit upon the next big idea  Lee Ramsey  free 1  Connections,” W&L’s Alumni On-Line Community, maintaining and updating that service’s
for Washington and Lee‘ design, and utilizing its “blast” email capabilities in communicating with the entire alumni popula- I
This is the first article in a series , tion.(or segments thereof); serve as liaison to the on-line community provider (including partici-
which will feature in-depth in ter- pating in conferences) and other campus web users; design and maintain Alumni Office
21112:?” lgtznidgnﬁéiﬁgrs at Wash‘ . - homepages and websites working closely with the Communications department; assist with
. ’ creating content for Alumni homepage; assist Career Services with their homepage and website it -
V - V - . V A design; serve as advisor and secretary to Kathekon, W&L’s Student Alunmi Association; answer f
.....................................  t‘?‘.‘.’"._ W’ “ti... ii".  l__"’."'.flF'?'.‘.. _‘°t,....'.'.t‘l??i.’_‘§‘_'_'_i.‘___.l.°j_l‘_'i. ll.l5.’fl7‘Fli?§l_l_lt'li___.._.___‘. .   __  . . requests for alumni lists and research projects; compose obituaries for the alumni magazine;
The ans Sc-hoe; pf Busing“ create the 25th reunion Calyx; aid in general alumni office planning for homecoming, reunion and
at 133.5 uni-cg;-pity of callfurntae Berkeley alumni chapter events. Travel involved. .1‘
Intensive BASE Sumrner Program 15 FORYGUE
July 7 or August I 5,. 1903 The position will become available June 15, 2003, and preference will be given to W&L alumni
Learn the fundamental; of; - and 2003 degree candidates. All candidates for this position should submit a cover letter and .
r ﬁttuinunting - l‘-ierkeging resume nolater than Friday, February 7, 2003. All materials should be sent to: '
—- Finance ' Orpnizatinatai Behavior ‘
O Hands-on market Si finaztcial research Rob Mish
- Tm building Director of Alumni Programs
=* Effective communication 3: presentation skiifs . A1umnjOfﬁoe ‘I
4- Preparing for -the cnrpnriam mcruiting, process Washington and Lee University
A.r1:s.Sctanca§-sand Engineering students will benefit fmm tzhti rigumus. ‘six-waalt Lexingtoni VA 24450 1
. summer cm-rtcxilum that will iiicludo Iamtmsuciasa studies.-company visits. gust: EMAILI rrr11Sh@Wh1-ed“ t.
 speahraars and ongoing interaction with students from over it) of the  uni» TEL; 540-458-8464
Vmlttss at the WWW» » FAX: 540-458-8473
For more lniotrnxatlnmvisit our website at!
haas.herkeIey.adu!1Indergraii ‘l

__,“_,_ _,,,,,,...,,........_....,..._, _,.4 ..._... in _,_

 

PINIONS

0 THE lil.:‘\i(}~TUtvfi iii-il
I
MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 2005

ii II-R? PHI
STAFF EDITORIAL

Lip Synch has limits

Nearly fifty years ago, U.S. Supreme
Court Justice William J. Brennan famously
wrote that sex and obscenity are not
synoymous.

Nonetheless, the acts by Kappa Sigma and
Phi Delta Theta at Friday’s Lip Synch com-
petition would have left no doubt even with
prickly Justice Brennan due to their sheer
lewdness, suggestive nature and downright
vulgarity.

According to Brennan’s opinion in Roth
v. United States, obscenity has a tendency to
excite lustful thoughts. Kappa Sigma, exceed-
ing even the pornography salesman charged
in that case, began the evening with an‘ inter-
pretation of Meatloaf that degenerated into
bestiality and graphic representations of sex
acts involving fruit.

Phi Delta Theta, unbelievably, was able
to outdo its predecessors by demonstrating ho-
mosexual sex, oral sex, group sex and mas-
ochism. One wonders how proud the pledges
will be thirty years from now when their gross
display is still captured on videotape.

The rules of the Lip Synch competition
speciﬁcally forbade obscene and vulgar acts.
Although the organizers failed to outline ex-
actly what was and was not acceptable, stu-
dents bright enough to attend Washington and

J Lee are certainly intelligent enough to demar-
cate limits for themselves. Every other act
abided by this distinction.

We wish the organizers of the contest had
had the courage to defend what standards Lip
Synch has and had pulled these two offending

I acts off the stage. These two juvenile expres-
sions of vulgarity should have been stopped
immediately because when they were allowed
to proceed, they disgraced the charitable pur-
pose of Lip Synch and insulted all the groups
that had planned and practiced creative, ap-
pealing, appropriate acts.

Again this year, Lip Synch was a fun event
that brought together the student body in sup-
port of a worthy cause. We herald the orga-
nizers and volunteers whose effort and dedi-

on Kappa Sigma and Phi Delta Theta for so
tarnishing an otherwise excellent evening.
Their behavior only gives credence to those
voices that criticize fraternities for degrading
our fair University.

cation made thecompetition asuccess. Shame 1‘ 4.

te of the Week

“As far as we are concerned, war always
means failure and therefore everything must
be done to avoid war.”

~French President Jacques Chirac



Editor in chief Katie J. Howell
Opinions Editor BrettT.Kirwan
Arts & Life Editor Catherine C. Guy

Photo Editor Jeff Gil Brooks
Sports Editor Erin Julius
Asst. News Editor CaleyAnderson

Photographers Tallie Jamison
CodyGabbard

Copy Editor Donny Banks

Business Manager Paul Seifert
Asst. Business Manager Thomas Worthy
Circulation Director Henry Grimball
Advertising Assistant McQueen Calvert"

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor in chief, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address." 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

OPINIONS EDITOR
EMAIL: KIRWANB@WLU.EDU

Abortion kills ch

Last Wednesday was the 30th
anniversary of the Roe v. Wade deci-
sion, that, in an astonishing power
grab by the Supreme Court, overthrew
the abortion laws of our nation. Ig-
noring its lack jurisdiction and discov-
ering a previously unknown “right to
privacy” the court fulﬁlled liberals’
dreams by making infanticide legal.

Abortion’s politics are discussed
elsewhere on this page, but this day
of death truly calls us not to remem-
ber battles won and lost in the courts,
butlto memorialize the millions of chil-
dren that have been murdered since
this horrific practice was legalized
nationwide and decry the barbaric
practices used to snuff these lights
of humanity before they ever had a
chance to shine.

Most estimates place the num-
ber of deaths by abortion around 42
million. Even today, although the
number of abortions has been declin-
ing for 10 years, nearly one out of
every four babies is murdered in the
womb. Terribly, this scourge hits mi-
nority populations especially hard.
Almost l3 million of the murdered
children were black.

Somewhat unsurprisingly, a de-
scription of common abortion tech-
niques brings into macabre color the
murderous aspect of the practice and
shockingly dissuades doubters that
fetuses are indeed living humans no
less deserving of life than we are.

Suction and Aspiration: A
vacuum is inserted in the uterus and
the fetus is sucked out. Since the child
must be detached from the wall of the
womb the suction tube has a sharp
end used to cut and

the haw ’ Rm
BRE_T_I_T. KIRWA/\'_j0/I

Dilation and
Curettage: A loop-
shaped knife is used
to chop the child still in the womb
before the pieces are removed.

Dilation and Evacuation: Sa-
line solution is injected into the womb
to kill the child. Labor, which is un-
usually painful, is induced using Pros-
taglandin so thernothermgives birth to

' a" dead baby. i H  "

- Partial—birth Abortion: Alter us-
ing ultrasound to locate the child’s legs,
calipers are used to deliver the child up
to the head. Then, scissors are inserted
into the skull and the child’s brain is
torn out. The head collapses and the
now dead child is delivered completely.
This procedure is usually performed on
fully-developed children and is legal
throughout all three trimesters.

Pro—lifers look to save Constitution

It’s not on any calendar I’ve ever
seen, but January 22 marks a truly ma-
cabre holiday for some political activ-
ists. Roe v. Wade, the holiest of grails
for liberals and their ilk, became the law
of the land on that day in 1973. What
has devolved from the pro—abortion
forces’ initial glee is an annual “celebra-
tion” of women’s “right to privacy.”

Whether or not abortion should be
legal or illegal is one question. Whether
or not the Supreme Court should be
making that decision is another. The
court, governing by judicial ﬁat in 1973,
substituted its opinion of what public
policy should be for what the legisla-
tive branch of government said public
policy will be.

The court added insult to injury
years later by refusing to reverse itself.
In Planned Parenthood v. Casey, the jus-
tices as much as admitted that Roe was,
at best, questionable, but they declined
to overturn it, citing “stare decisis,” a
legal term which calls on courts to stand
by precedent, even if they disagree with
it. If the court had applied the same logic
to Brown vs. Board of Education in the
1950s, Plessy v. Ferguson would never
have been overturned and the schools
would still be segregated. The court can’t

“1 e Phi.
-Drew Davenport ‘06

"Theta Ghetto Girl andPE’s

jkli Bllooks ekmg-izmz P. I

Surzvrvorrs. On Wednesday, adopted children rallied for life at the County Courthouse.

What is purpose of these cruel,
grisly practices that leave babies shred-
ded? Is it convenience, freedom, an es-
cape from irresponsibility? As National
Public Radio contributor Frederica
Mathews-Green noted, abortion was
heralded as bringing freedom to women
and praised as a recognition that
women would no
longer be forced to
shoulder unwanted
pregnancy. But before
abortion was com-
monplace, a women who became preg-
nant accidentally had a support network
including parents, friends, the father, the
church and her neighborhood. Now, a
woman is expected to go and take care
of the “problem” herself. Abortion has
not liberated women, but made them

’ suffer difficult pregnairicgievs alone.

Moreover, , abortion
transmogrifies what should be the
truest expression of love~that be-
tween a woman and her child. Abor-
tion has transformed them into en-
emies, each fighting for his rights.
Children are not a disease that can
be cut from the body like a cancer,
but the National Abortion and Repro-
ductive Rights Action League

even decide if it’s precedent to follow
precedent.

But the court of public opinion is
beginning to diverge from the highest
court in the land. Arecent survey by ABC
News and The Washington Post showed
that just 54 percent of people surveyed
agreed in whole or in
part with the Supreme   
Court’s ruling in Roe.  '
That’s down from 65 if
percent just 10 years
ago. You don’t have to be a math major
to see which way that statistic is trend-
ing. Additionally, most of the people sur-
veyed displayed a desire for the govem-
ment to make it harder for women to get
an abortion— regardless of whether they
thought it should be legal or not.

With the current trend of protect-
abortion-at—all costs, the support for
abortion will probably erode even fur-
ther. In many states, frenzied lobbying
on behalf of the liberal left has lirnited—
or outright restricted—parental—notiﬁ-
cation laws. In these instances, the
strange reality exists that a minor has to
get permission from her parents if she
wants to get an aspirin at school, but
not if she wants to end her pregnancy.
How many parents will be able to stom-

act. It was adorable.”
-Jessica Lloyd ‘06


OHN H- HEAT.Iﬂl4_

‘The Ace ofBase medley
rockedthehouse.”
—Nazo Burgy ‘O6

(NARAL) and the National Organi-
zation for Women have taught women
to hate themselves and their off-
spring with their message of abor-
tion-on-demand.

In addition, today, supposedly all
the children born are “wanted” chil-
dren. If this is so, why has the rate of
child abuse catapulted in the last 30
years? Is it perhaps because children
are no longer gifts from God to be cher-
ished and protected, but are mere
“choices” delivered at the whim of
mothers. How does one explain to a
four or ﬁve—year-old who looks almost
identical to an aborted fetus that they
are human but the dead baby is a life-
less lump of cells that can be killed?

This is not to mention the health
risks to women who undergo abor-

' V tions. Complicated future pregnancies

and an increased risk of breast cancer
are just the start.

Congratulations go to Patricia
Heaton of Everybody Loves Raymond
who spoke on Wednesday saying that
abortion means we have failed women.
When 1.5 million abortions occur each
year, we truly have failed and not only
women, but children, fathers and life
itself.

ach this reality, even if they support
abortion rights generally?

The ironic part of the abortion de-
bate is that the same people, liberals,
who so vehemently defend the right to
abort as implicit in the “penumbra” of
the Constitution (penumbra, the aura
around an eclipse,
that is) rage against
other constitutionally
protected actions.
These same people
who defend abortion oppose the right
to own ﬁrearms, a right which doesn’t
require “penumbras” to be clearly ex-
pressed in the Bill of Rights. The gos-
pel according to the liberals seems that
implicit Constitutional rights are defen-
sible, but explicit Constitutional rights
are not worth defending.

Are there times, such as when the
mother’s life is at stake, when abortion
should be allowed? Perhaps. That
would be a great debate for our legisla-
tive bodies, and a policy area in which
our elected ofﬁcials could really show
their mettle and make a difference. Un-
fortunately, it’s a debate that our elected
representatives won’t have, because on
January 22, 1973, nine old men in Wash-
ington, DC had it for us.

“KD’s ical Jackson.”

-Shane Newhouser ‘06

PAGE 5

Safe Place follows
tradition of W&L

This past week’s Trident had two very notewor-
thy pieces, neither of which were actually written by a
member of the staff itself. The first of these two items
was the reprint of the Phi s editorial from April of 1968.
The second was another letter from alumnus David
Keeling ’73.

I have strayed from this editorial chess match, until
now. Mr. Keeling, your king will fall.

I am eager to know if Keeling read the afore-
mentioned staff editorial from the week of Martin
Luther King’s assassination. The piece points out
that just seven years before King’s death, the
University’s Board
of Trustees refused
to allow Dr. King to
speak on the Wash-
ington and Lee
campus. The point made by the Phi staff was that,
following this decision, the memorial held for King ,
just above the remains of the deceased Confeder-
ate general, was greatly signiﬁcant.

This was a moment of change in the university’s
history. In fact, the situation of today is quite similar.
Here, we have an alumnus upset because Safe Place is
on campus and he was not informed.

But, what is so horrible about an organization
that provides counseling to teens and young adults
dealing with issues ranging from suicide, eating dis-
orders, sexual identity, etc.? This is an organization
that helps protect people... to keep them safe. I be-
lieve that message is in the title of the organization.

Yes, Safe Place helps youth dealing with ho-
mosexuality. Such a thing does have a place on
General Lee’s campus. Just as the elders of the
Washington and Lee society were wrong in keep-
ing Dr. King from speaking on campus in 196] , they
are wrong now in 2003 by trying to keep Safe Place
off this campus.

Statistically speaking, it is damn near impossible
that there would be no homosexual students on this
campus. Just as it is also preposterous to think that
there were no homosexual students on campus during
Keeling’s years at Washington and Lee.

What is Keeling’s counter to this argument?
“And yes, American society has changed since the
days of Washington and Lee, but the Christian faith
has not.”

However, in the Old Testament, the recognized
point would be the tale of Sodom and Gomorrah. The
language used in the Bible is that the inhabitants of the
town wanted the strangers brought out so they may
“know” them. Tracing the language back to its original
'translati'o/n‘, there is no conclusive evidence to say that
these people wereanything more than curious as to
whom these people were.

Furthermore, according to the Bible, the inhab-
itants of Sodom and Gomorrah were wicked. This
could mean almost anything. There are many reli-
gious scholars, members of the clergy and rabbis
who believe the sin of the people of Sodom and
Gomorrah was being inhospitable.

As for the New Testament; what did Jesus have
to say about homosexuality? Check the red print in
your leather-bound book. Jesus said nothing about
homosexuality. Nothing. He only taught love and
acceptance. That seems to have a place in this dis-
cussion.

Another argument made by Keeling is that sod-
omy is a crime in Virginia. On this campus, heterosexu-
als engage in “sodomy” much more than same—sex
couples do.

So, Mr. Keeling, if you have grievances with how
Washington Hall communicates with the alumni of the
school, take it to them. Do not come after students
such as Kelly Jo Larsen, the members of GSA (which
includes myself) or those responsible for Safe Place.
These students are only trying to promote an environ-
ment of tolerance and mutual respect among different
students.‘

This is not Bob Jones University. Lee and Wash-
ington were wonderful Christian men. However, this is
not a Christian university. Also, using religion for this
argument is a shaky foundation in itself.

As for Keeling’s claim that Safe Place “show(s)
how the liberal agenda has brought shame to W&L, a
smear on its good character,” is it not the idea of a
liberal arts education to bring together people of all
different sorts to expand their minds in many disci-
plines? Organizations like Safe Place only try to ensure
that all students can walk this campus with their heads
held high, being honorable and honest about the people
they really are.

Apparently, the administration was correct to

LEFT OF CENTER 
NICK RAMSEY ‘O3

fear the reactions of certain alumni. Keeling illus-

trates that there exists among them, those whose
narrow-minded View see Safe Place as something
smearing this great school’s character. How sad for
you, Mr. Keeling.

“It was an amazin first

W&L experience.”
-Vicky Sprow ‘O6 Harvard

   

 

PAGE 4

Bush not consistent
on afﬁrrnative action

President Bush’s stance on affir-
mative action at the University of
Michigan represents a very narrow-
minded opinion that ignores potential
consequences. By labeling Michigan’s
policies as simply “unconstitutional,”
Bush has proscribed
a simple solution to
an issue that is not
so simple. Although
no bastion of sup-
port for afﬁrrnative action and diver-
sity-enhancing initiatives, I question
some of the implications of policy that
could potentially stem from the Bush
Administration’s brief.

At the University of Michigan, a
150 point “selection index” deter-
mines whether students will get an
offer of admission. One hundred
points usually is sufﬁcient to gain ad-
mission. In order to increase ethnic
diversity, Michigan gives a 20 point
bonus to blacks, Hispanics and
American Indians.

Conservatives like President
Bush hold that equality for all Ameri-
cans means selection based on quali-
ﬁcations. But, people like Bush, Al
Gore and many others beneﬁted from
afﬁrrnative action themselves. Be-
cause this type of afﬁnnative action
is called the “legacy preference,”
however, it seems to be more accept-
able to the President. In the Univer-
sity of Michigan selection index, four
points are given to those who have
had a family member attend the
school. Most likely, legacies with
qualiﬁcations (and educational oppor-
tunities) similar to these applicants
who now argue before the Supreme
Court took the slots to which these
applicants lay claim. For example, the
University of Virginia (another state
institution), accepts 52 percent of lega-
cies, but only 36 percent of other ap-
plicants. Why doesn’t the Bush Ad-
ministration denounce this practice in
the interest of consistency? Based

 
 

upon Bush’s doctrine of judging ev-
erything based on qualiﬁcations, he
should also be opposed to the legacy
preference, which would have left him
and his relatively mediocre SAT
scores out of Yale. Sen. John Edwards

__~ correctly de-

COMMON SENSE munced the

‘ “legacy preference”

 as  birthright out
of 18"‘ century aris-

tocracy, not 215‘ century American de-

mocracy.”

Other kinds of diversity would
also be impacted if the Bush principle
were upheld. Any school would be a
very boring place if everyone there
were from the same city. Thus, quali-
ﬁcations must be taken into account
with other factors to arrive at a class
that will spread the University’s
teaching across the country and the
world after graduation. Universities
beneﬁt when graduates take leader-
ship positions in their respective
countries. Thus, geographic diversity
is vital to making a university an in-
teresting, diverse place that produces
leaders in the various disciplines and
locations.

The Bush Administration’s com-
ments, unfortunately, could have sig-
niﬁcant ramiﬁcations. The legacy pref-
erence is a perfectly acceptable prac-
tice that allows universities to main-
tain alumni donations and build upon
tradition. Likewise, careﬁilly plarmed
affirmative action plans (like
Michigan’s) are perfectly acceptable
plans to increase diversity and extend
opportunities to those who have not
been so fortunate. Both practices help
make American colleges and univer-
sities the envy of the world, and I think
both should continue. But, if the Bush
Administration wrongly sees the Uni-
versity of Michigan system as uncon-
stitutional, then it should be consis-
tent in advocating solely qualiﬁca-
tions-based admissions practices.



Bush: Resolve
North Korea ﬁrst

Our foreign policy at the current moment seems,
to me, a bit confused. As the tone of the United States-
Iraq conﬂict becomes more and more tense, one can-
not help but think of the more severe problems that
await American attention on the Korean peninsula.

Think of the amazing polarity of the differences
between the two rogue states. We suspect Iraq of
possession of nuclear, biological and chemical weap-
ons, yet have nothing but circumstantial evidence to
hand to the rest of the world as yet. North Korea, on
the other hand, admits that it has several working
nuclear weapons, and in truth ﬂaunts this fact in open
deﬁance of United Nations resolutions, international
treaties and repeated warnings from the Western coun-
tries.

Iraq poses no serious threat to its neighbors at
the moment; United States conventional forces in the
area (even prior to the large military buildup) would
have been sufficient to prevent a repetition of
Hussein’s invasion of Kuwait, or any other Middle
Eastern neighbor. Additionally, Hussein knows the
severe consequences he would suffer if he began more
open hostilities- a deﬁnite removal from power, and a
most-likely permanent regime change in the Iraqi gov-
emment.

North Korea, though it shares
one of the smallest borders on the
planet with its southern, democratic
neighbor, keeps that border the most
heavily guarded one in existence (and
vice versa). North Korea has a signiﬁcant, though
slightly antiquated military force that could most likely
overpower South Korea’s conventional forces and
present a situation very similar to that of the late 1940s
and early 1950s at the start of the Korean War. Addi-
tionally, North Korea poses a conﬁrmed nuclear threat
to South Korea, Russia, Mongolia, Japan, Thailand,
and Suriname. It is overwhelmingly unlikely that Iraq
has such potential.

Thus, I ﬁnd it mind-boggling that the current
Presidential administration is choosing to deal with
the Iraq problem ﬁrst. I can think of no logical motiva-
tion for doing so. The ofﬁcial explanation from Presi-
dent Bush is that “diplomacy” is still a viable option
in North Korea, whereas “all diplomatic resources
have been exhausted” in Iraq.

Frankly, I don’t recall any ofﬁcial visit by any
important U.S. State Department ﬁgure to Iraq to see
if a mutually-acceptable compromise could be reached.
All I remember is the United States collaborating with

 
 

Watkins.

An Open Letter to the Washington and Lee Community

The S.A.R.A.H. Committee would like to express our gratitude and
appreciation to the Students, Faculty, Staff and Administration who par-
ticipated in one way or another with the 2003 Lip Synch competition. We '
start with all of the wonderful attendees of the event, the spectacular
participants, and of course our great judges: Liz Brown, Professor Ted
DeLaney, Dan Grattan, Curtis Matthews, Trey Packard, and Dean Dawn

Our long list continues. We also extend our many thanks to the

 

Body image support group begins

A support group sponsored by the University



W&L to host desegregation conference

In 1953, the U.S. Supreme Court announced it
would take on the legality of segregated public
schools—shocking .blacks and whites alike as
they wrestled their emotions and fears for their I --
children with the ideal and the realities of equality.

The court’s landmark Brown v. Board of Edu-
cation ruling was a Civil Rights milestone—and
the launch pad of a legacy so troubled and con-

DANGEROUS. Kimjong I1 is a greater threat than Hussein.

its allies within the United Nations to buildup support
for a United Nations declaration that was effectively
an ultimatum to Iraq, which, thankfully, they have com-
plied with to a sufﬁcient degree.

Yet we keep on sending diplomat after diplomat
to Pyongyang and to Kim Jong II, whose propagan-
dist epithets against the U.S. (“die in a rain of ﬁre”)
sound not at all different from Saddam Hussein’s.
The only real justiﬁable explanation I can think ofis

that Hussein is by far the more deplor-

MQDERATE’S MUSIVNGS able leader in terms of human rights.

This is a man who has strapped babies
to tanks in order to cause opposing sol-
diers to think twice about firing on
them, after all.

Kim has done nothing of quite that degree,
though his human rights slate is clear by no means.
Yet the Bush administration has not presented this
reasoning as an explanation. I certainly hope that there
is a justiﬁable explanation that I don’t know about,
and not just the one proposed by some who are
slightly more liberal than I: The Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea does not export anything terribly
rare or valuable, whereas Iraq has a signiﬁcant amount
of oil, oil that is controlled by an unfriendly source at
the moment. Some would argue that President Bush
is willing to sacriﬁce American lives for a more favor-
able oil and economic position, but I’m not willing to
be so cynical. ...yet.

It is my hope that President Bush and his staff
realize the futility of attacking Iraq before silencing
the belligerency of North Korea, or at least provide a
more tangible reason for proceeding with the current
order of things. Lives depend upon it.

MONDAY, IANUARY 27, 2005;:

i

Birthdays
come but
once a
year".

K

‘,

_QOOOOOOOOIOC.OOOOOOOO_OOO
1‘

‘V

21 comes
but nce!

*4

Q‘

  

‘V

a  
Birtlﬁgzy,

Koteguy!

‘ ,

We love
you!
kill: bl“:
€€J  Jgb

ai

I

‘<4Qy_'_I_{,:._O_r_Dv.,-_O‘OOOOOOQ,OOOOOOO<O'Q'O'O.COCO-O.IO_OOO_OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO

ﬁe

This winter, joined by Patterson, Washingtorlj

and Lee University will open the nation’s 50"‘ anni-*1
versary debate on the impact—and continuing con;-L,
troversy—surrounding the court’s landmark deseg-
regation ruling on American society.’
Washington and Lee uniquely lays claim to en-
rolling in 1795 the ﬁrst black American college stu-
dent, John Chavis, as well as graduating the attor-
ney, John W. Davis, who argued against desegre-
gation on South Carolina’s behalf in Brown.

Counseling Service will being meeting weekly for
women who are dealing with body image/disordered
eating, and/or compulsive exercise. If you are fac-
ing any of these problems in your daily life, you are
invited to join this conﬁdential group which meets
weekly. Each member will sign an agreement of con-
ﬁdentiality at the ﬁrst meeting. Please call Carol
Calkins at x8590 or e-mail ccalkins@wlu.edu to learn
the startup date, time, and location.

tentious that The New York Times recently head-
lined a piece examining it “American Apartheid.”

That 2001 headline prefaced the Times ’review
of renowned historian James T. Patterson’s ac-
claimed book examining the hopes — and failures -
that the Brown decision wrought and continues
to bring, with the Supreme Court deciding this
spring whether race is an acceptable consideration
in college admissions.

The March 20-21 conference, named in honor
of Chavis, the W&L alumnus and ﬁrst college edu-
cated African-American in U.S. history, features
speakers including Patterson, William A. Darity Jr.,
Michael Klarrnan, Daryl Scott, Constance Curry
and Kara Miles-Tumer. u

“Brown V. Board of Education: A Fifty Year
Retrospective,” will include faculty participants and
signiﬁcant participation from W&L’s 2,160 students.

Physical Plant Teams, Publications, Dining Services, The President’s
Office, The Dean of Students Office, Security, the Journalism and Mass
Communications Department, Professor Bob De Maria, Laurie Lipscomb,
The Morris House, The Lee House, and the Washington and Lee Alumni
Association. As any outsider would observe, it is amazing how the entire
W&L Community jointly reaches out to help with this worthy cause--
”Students Against Rockbridge Area Hunger.”

Without the aforementioned groups and individuals plus the unbe-
lievable assistance and support from the IF C, Panhellenic, and all of the
W&L fraternities and sororities this would not be the success that it is. ,

When the dust settles, and all of our bills are paid, we will quickly
inform you of the exact number of tons of food we were able to purchase
for Rockbridge area residnets, due to your support and generosity.

Lastly, but certainly not least, we would also like to thank The Tri-
dent and The Ring-tum Phi for the pre-event publicity. This greatly helps
with the student turnout at Lip Synch. Again, we thank all of you, and we
look forward to a successful Lip Synch 2004.

“Siham-ralessly entertaining” — Washington Post,
If you think you don’t  Shakespeare,
you hairen’t been to Blackfriars.

 
   

Sincerely Yours,      W
Wes McRae ‘O3--S.A.R.A.H. President 3} g '

Ansel sanders ‘04--S,A_R,A,H_ vice President We do it with the Iignte on so that audience me-mbens can see the actors.

Thomas Worthy ‘05--S.A.R.A.H. Secretary our beauttfui theater. and Eaﬁh Qmef»

John T’ Taffe"S'A"R'A'H'AdvlS°r The shows last about two hours. and you don"! need to dress up. n

K W'hat-avsryoo buy at our bar‘. 310%} can bring into the theater.
6 _ 510 student melt tickets are available an hour before moot shows.
a . .. . Shenandoah Shakes‘ re has been on stage for 14 years ‘I
. E - > _ and performed in - ‘I states and Eve foreign countries.
.   Since ‘September 2001. when we opened Blackfﬁars Playhouse —
P . J the wands only recreation of Shakes . are‘:-i indoor theater — n
_ ’  - more than 50.000 people (from 49 states have oome- to the show.
. __ °%Pl’l9l“°."x1 and NUW.5 the time £01.03” the am at
- P,,.,$l?p,g;Y, ,‘.,:,::,::’§Iuﬁm,vg,l?don£by- ' V ll I-‘rn.rtt':_is Beaiittiont s ' _
, m_ec. means se scipne..._   - - H I . g _ --
m1;{;f§§g§;gg;;ef;§;$;g;f$§segd%;3r°§jr;;,c;g;§6gling » . The t   Burnlﬂg PeSﬂe , .
.""‘°""°“ °'“l"“°",.,',‘,‘,°,§,“‘,§‘;,§',?.;,‘f;,‘_""‘°“‘ °”“"’°* by’ lraiagliie .E»Ioim::' and Margie F»:l.mpsnla buying 't‘|ckets- to a Cllafﬁliilti play. ,_
, Wemme ,0, ciinibing. on s‘tr1.gr: lt‘i’lE.El Bart. and trying to trim it into "‘l.r1tliana Joana "
. g " ‘ y — The Knight of the Hlrmlrrg Poetic la 3 rolltclrlrrg ou:itnerl.y..
     ‘.‘S°CR.ATES CAFE”

-- A nroderaled,  fommyfortliegdiséirision of ideas ' p  _ ' I

The show opens liriday. Jan. 3!, at 7:30 pm... i r
fol owetl try a reception with the actors

_ it runs tttmtrgii March 29 and again this summer

7:30 pm. Thurs:day,iI*‘Aebruas'y Cth. v — _ _ _ I“
  I www.shenandoahshakespearemom
540.885.5588

10 South Market Street staunton. VA

beside the new parking garage in award-winning downtown

-A place where the only answer is the  question 

]> --For people who want to bring questions of their own-
and leave with more questiom than they brought.

’ ..LEXINGTON co1n'~'an_srror _ —

/ )0 2,  ,9w.wAsrinvcroNs1mi ’

:3

 

Q

 

  

LATIIERINE C. GUY
AKIS & LIFE EDITOR
EMAIL: GUYC@WLU.EDU

IVIONDAY, JANUARY 27, 2003

BY HAYNES KING
TRAVEL CORRESPONDENT

I This week’s trip destination: the Natural Bridge
Wax Museum. I am not sure where I should even
start with this overdone tourist trap. I have to say
that I am glad that I can now tell people that I’ve
actually been there, but I’m even prouder to say that

‘I did not have to waste my money on the visit.
Thanks Ring-tum Phi.

If you are looking for a history lesson somewhere
other than in a book, then the Wax Museum will cover
'ust about every period of history you can possibly
imagine. Beginning with the “Garden of Eden” and
going up to the “War Between the States,” the Natural
Bridge Wax Museum provides life-like ﬁgures of those
who lived through and participated in all these

Vsituations and more.

The only problem with this scenario is just how life-like
they actually are. I’m trying to find a more literary word, but
the only thing I can come up with is “creepy.” That’s right;
I was thouroughly creeped out throughout the entire tour.
While turning a comer to move on to the next educational
scene, I was quite shocked to see two other fellow tourists
standing at the railing, apparently enjoying the wax creations.
However, to my surprise, upon closer inspection I discovered

htliat these two tourists were simply another part of the exhibit.
Iwasn’t sure whether I wanted to keep on with the tour or

H turn around and sprint out of the building. I waited nearly

’ five minutes before deciding the two men were deﬁnitely
héjrmless wax ﬁgures themselves. While this reaction is clearly
what the creators wanted, I do not think they had intended to
impart the uncomfortable and uneasy feeling I experienced
during the tour. Of course, they wanted people to think that
their creations were living, breathing humans, just like the

Tlrllﬁ RlNG*'l'l;E\’l PH} L
RTS 81 IFE

.S crutiny melts wax museum

Supper”. Interesting to me is the fact that the first
scene is the “Garden of Eden” at the start of the tour.
The last scene is a life-size recreation of one of the
most famous and beautiful paintings of history. The
religious undertones of this exhibit are in no way
subtle. At nearly all ofthe scenes, a recorded voice
describes the setting and explains in more detail the
history and background behind each of the eerily
life-like creations.

I imagine that the creators hope that people will
appreciate all of the time and effort that goes in to
the production ofthese settings. In fact, it is possible
for visitors who are so inclined to tour the factory
floor to see the wax artisans at work. Needless to
say, we declined that opportunity. I definitely
understand the skill and dedication required for the
artisan craft of wax figure making, but my memories
of a terrifying movie from my youth kept me from
enjoying the museum as thoroughly as one would
hope. Perhaps you remember the film “Wax Works”.
I think I must have seen this movie at too young an
age, because I never got that uncomfortable feeling
out of my stomach. The museum was not scary, nor
did it intend to be. Like I said earlier, it was just plain
creepy.

Idon’t think this is really a good place to take a
date, unless you or your potential date happen to
be weird. Sorry to be blunt. All in all, Jeb and I
decided that the Wax Museum deserved 2 °
tridents, the half is for the the bragging rights of
actually having been to the wax museum We’re glad
we experienced it, but it lost a good review when we
were crept out by it.

Haynes and Jeb give the Wax Museum 2 1/2 out of 5 Tridents.

Iqnumerous tourists that they lure in.

The climax of the tour comes at the end with a sit
down viewing of Leonardo da Vinci’s “The Last

  
   

I’.

BY SAM LAGRONE' ' ' 3
vMI DESK

Sports fans, welcome to the end
of an era.
, The buzz in Barracks is not about
the war in Iraq, our new Airborne

4 superintendent (that enough stars to

form the constellation ‘tough guy’)
and the oral arguments in Richmond
for VMI’s prayer at dinner policy.

it-They have all been eclipsed by the

departure of our b-ball wunderkind,
Jason Conley.

Just as Pat Conroy’s brilliant
retrospective look at his career as a

'” team player at The Citadel in, ‘My

Losing Season,’ was picking up steam,
Conley decided to pull stakes for the
University of Missouri, smack—dab in
the middle of the season.
Most of the corps is crying ﬁnk
"t his move to Missouri, especially
after his bold, declarative, nationally
published statements that he would

T remain at VMI to ﬁnish out school.

There were no hints to his sudden
departure. It was like he was jumping
the Berlin wall to escape the Soviets.

VMI has to be embarrassed.
Conley's face is plastered on every
calendar, basketball poster and a
series of billboards. For a brief but
shining season VMI was the gee-whiz
story on the national sports scene.

.‘ _He led the NCAA in points per game

‘and started drawing the attention of

       mill txrnnn

-«vthe country to a school best known
for teaching young ‘men and women

to blow things up. We had hope for a
revival of the VMI basketball that
existed 25 years ago when former
Keydet and L.A. Laker, Ron Carter
owned all the paint in the Southern
Conference. The Roanoke Times
reported that Carter, who had talked
to Conley often in the past, wasn‘t
consulted about the transfer.

“I was very disappointed. I
thought it was an unfortunate
decision” to leave, Carter said to The
Roanoke Times.

“He could’ve made the transition
to the NBA right from VMI. He was
already on the radar screens of many
of the teams. He was not going to be
overlooked.”

Carter stuck it out for the Corps,
the team and the school. We thought
Conley would do the same before he
up and played free agent.

To give him credit, Jason had a
remarkably and graceﬁal style when he
hit the court. Handling the ball for him
was natural as walking is for the rest of
us. Imagine watching a swan move
across the surface of a crystal pond
gliding effortlessly, beautifully and
then jumping four feet in the air for a
gorilla dunk and squawking, “Whose
the ugly duckling now, fool!” People
who knew him said he was a nice guy.

He made basketball at VMI fun
to watch. The most entertainment

 

:PreeConley came froarri..l\t1.a.rk.-.w
Grigsby. His defensive style could I’

be best described as the spastic
squirrel. Watching him dart
around, frantically waving his arms
in front ofthe full court press was
immensely entertaining. He looked
like Prince Nutsy of the Knotty
Pine Forest trying to snag falling
acorns. He was a very nice guy
too.

Back to square one.

We’re left with a team that was
built around a talented young man
who is absent. Clutch fast breaks
that ended in who’s-your-daddy-
dunks now end in turnovers. The
team still has a lot of heart. Players
like Zach Batte, Ben Rand and
Radee Skipworth work as hard as
they can with a great drive-on
attitude. Sure we’re going to lose a
whole bunch more games this year.
But winning was never a big part of
Keydet sports. It’s all about sharing
dashed hopes, pain and hardships
together as we rally around the most
self—deprecating fight song in
history that states, “to win seems in
vain.”

In the end, there is no “I” in team,
or the Corps.

There sure are a lot of “I’s” in,
“University of Missouri is a winning
program.”

Contact Sam

lagronesr@vmi.edu

LaGrone:

 

PAGE 5

Jr}: BRoOKs/ TbeRI'ng—tumPbz'

CREEPY: This Waxen maiden (insert) enjoys being a captive in the wax museum (background) about as much as We did.

Well it ﬁnally happened. Naively, I had hoped that
I could get through this school year without catalyzing
the controversy that my ex—roommate Mr. Denbow so
loves to kick up. But I suppose there is always that risk
when you present your thoughts for public consumption.

But in this case, I promise my intentions were a little
more benevolent. After a certain freshman girl proofread

1- "that-Rush :Week.reveals nmreal truths about .the
personalities and lives of independents. Of course, I
agreed with her, but I told her that I was already planning
on writing an article to that effect. Here is that article, a
week late (I found it rather difﬁcult to write while I was in
an Ultimate Frisbee tournament last weekend).

Andrew Stein was one of the first people I met
at W&L. He loved to play Ultimate and also played
in the jazz band. He is probably one of the most
genuine people I’ve ever met. Rian Lewis has
certainly one ofthe funniest personalities I’ve ever
experienced. I considered Andrew Fotinos one of
my closest friends freshman year. The soccer team
would clearly suffer without the
contributions of Garreth Winstead.
Dustin Albright virtually runs
Leyburn Library by himself. Sarah
Grigg still says hi, even though we
virtually see each other once every six months or
so. And if you met Lucy Frick and didn’t think she
was the greatest person of all time, then you would
be on crack. Finally, the one person I’ve been closer
to out of anyone EVER was a certain independent
girl.

Since so many tend to view W&L in terms of its
dominance by Greeks, it becomes tragically easy to miss the
contributions of independents. Some frat boys and srat girls
probably couldn’t give the name of 10 indies they know in
Lexington. I am not going to hide the truth, that some members
of the Greek system prefer to ignore the existence of
independents all together. But there is a more practical
difficulty . Often Greek members become so submerged in
their houses that they simply don’t have much contact with
independents. I’ve been fortunate enough to avoid this
situation; my involvement with Ultimate Frisbee and musical
ensembles keeps me in a contact with at least a few
independents that I’m happy to have met.

— my article -two, weeks ago, she suggested that I mention ,

ABSOLUTE FRATLORD
TIM SMITH ‘O4

Independents defy Greek expectations

The Greek mindset also would have us believe that
many independents were simply Rush Week casualties.
If you believe this, come back to reality — there are millions
of other reasons why people CHOOSE (what a shocking
concept) to go independent:

For one, fraternities at this place are ridiculously
expensive. I’m on a full scholarship, and the only reason
I was able to.joi_n r,ny:house_was_ through the generosity
of my parents. ._I'ri‘ Lexington, people with financial
concerns are in the clear minority —r not all of us drive
SUVs and live off of daddy’s millions. Then there is the
grades issue — some are unable to join “legally” because

. of grade concerns. In addition, some prefer not to join

because they fear their grades will suffer. After all, we
are here to learn, ﬁrst and foremost. Some people get
accepted initially, but then refuse to endure the
demeaning aspects of pledgeship. Some folks don’t
rush because of a simple lifestyle choice — they simply
choose to avoid the more negative aspects of fraternity
life. All of these choices and situations are undeniably
valid, and if W&L wasn’t the unique place it is, I’d be
willing to bet that more of us frat boys
and srat girls would be making the same
choices.
* Unfortunately, there are some who

have no choice but to go independent
as a result of Rush Week bid sessions. And as I said
previously, these decisions have no bearing on whether
the individual in question is “good enough.” Indeed, I
argued that some don’t get in simply because one jerk
decides to keep him or her out. To imply that everyone
should change his or her personality was admittedly a
mistake. But I stand by this message — we could all use
improving, and perhaps Rush Week could be an indicator
(albeit an unreliable one) to some that they could improve
something within themselves.

I claim no superiority from being in a fraternity. In
fact, I’m a member of a fraternity that has long suffered
because others have claimed superiority over us. If I
chose to think I was better than independents because
of my Greek status, then I would be no better than these
morons are. To Mr. Bice, and all other independents
who may know me, I hope that I have sufﬁciently
corrected myself — your opinion is valued here as much

as the thoughts of any Greek member in all of Lex Vegas.

our Seasons showcases grace, poise ofW&L ballerinas

, Before reading this column, I’d
like to note two things: ﬁrst of all, I am
«speaking on behalf of my own
lgsxperiences as a ballerina in
:combination with myself as an
Ipbserver in the audience of Vivaldi’s

(Four Seasons. I also use Victoria

§}uroian’s reﬂections as a ballerina for
gnother source. Second of all, I use
:t"he female pronoun throughout the
‘article. This is not a form of

lljiliscrimination against male ballerinas.

Zifkfter all, if there were no male
gballerinas, where would the romantic
gitspect of the ballet exist? Rather, I use

g Ethe pronoun “she” because in W&L’s

fperformance of F our Seasons, all the
-_?_oallerinas are female.

 I don’t think anyone realizes the
Etrength, skill, and talent of a

kiballerina (that is, unless one has

:5oeen there herself). Ballet dancing

-V

is not simply waving one’s arms
around to the sound of music. It is
not interpretive-dancing nor is it
merely jumping around in a tutu.
Ballet dancing involves perfection
and elegance of the
highest degree. To
perform the dance
is not enough.
Rather, she must
perform with pointed feet,
straightened legs, arched back,
uplifted chest, a “tucked-in” tummy,
and softly moving arms, all
maintained under the poise of a
swan, graceful and beautiful to the
eyes of the audience. It is a talent
that takes years to perfect and a skill
that once maintained, is loved by all
who perform.

But the realities of dancing are
not easily disregarded. Endless

ON THE ARTS
 walking quite

hours of practicing the same moves
over and over again until memorized
and immaculate constitute the
ballerina’s schedule. Shaking and
tired muscles, sore buttocks,
bleeding toes
and blistered
feet make

difficult and
awkward when she leaves the
studio. Yet no one would ever know,
except the ballerina herself and
perhaps those who see her
afterwards. The audience does not
know the practice nor do they see
the physical pain — after all, neither
of these are part of the dance.

So why — why does she subject
herself to these physical pains and
the mental stresses of perfection? For
one reason and one reason only: a

passion for the art of ballet. And so,
on performance day, whatever skin
remains on her bloody toes is
bandaged, the sore muscles are
creamed, and tired eyes are concealed
with the stroke of a make-up brush,
all in preparation for her performance
on stage.

The moment
the music
commences, it’s as
though ,a certain
mood, a certain
persona, arises
within the ballerina.
She submits herself
to the power of the
music. The pain, the
worries, and the
stress are left somewhere behind the
set, in the dressing room. The reality
of the stage transforms itself. This is

IT Is A TALENT THAT
TAKES YEARS To PERFECT
AND A SKILL THAT ONCE
MAINTAINED, IS LovED BY
ALL WHO PERFORM.

the moment — this is the reason why
she dances — it is her chance to
express her innermost emotions and
escape into a dream world where love
conquers all and evil, pain, and worry
cease to exist.

Though she may not realize it, she
constitutes the beauty of the piece -
elegance shining
throughthemovernent
of her body to the
harmony of the music.
The melody is inside
her. She is an
instrument for the
composer, portraying
the emotions he
sought to convey. She
does it beautifully, but
at the same time, she uses the composer,
the piece, and the music as an instrument
for her own self—expression.

As for the audience, the
ballerinas seem like angels ﬂoating
in the sky, untouched by the realities
of everyday life. While performing
and dancing in their own whimsical
worlds, they possess the power to
bring the audience with them — on a
journey to these Shakespearean-like
fantasy lands of unreality,
transforming the entire world and its
realities into a sublime and beautiful
dream.

For all of the ballerinas who
performed in Vivaldi’s Four
Seasons, I’d like to say thank you.
Thank you for showing us life from
a truly graceful perspective, and
though it was just a moment, thank
you for taking us into a world away
from the everyday stresses of reality
— a world where the beautiful

prevails.

 

PAGE 6 E ARTS 5; LIFE , .._,IAI_ ,-_AE._________I\iamLIANutRY 27 2003

SEmNG THE STAGE: The Pavillion stage is set up in preparation for the evenings entertainment.

ANGEL IN THE CENFERFOIDZ Kappa freshman Rachel Williams shines.

SEX MACHINE! The
Sigma Chi‘s entertain
the ladies in the crowd
(left).

I

CHEERING:
Spectators
enjoythe Lip
Synch acts

(right).

"at »sTuo£*rs Amara;
. octcampcs MUEA s~ium.sR

S
V
II
0
II
  2
II
II
3

SPARKLING: This years Lip Synch winner, Chi Omega _  ‘
freshmen performed “Diamonds are a Girl's Best Friend”. ’

You CAN DANCE IF YOU WANT To: Fiji Pledges do the “Safety Dance”.

GET DOWN TONIGHT: Kappa Alpha Theta
freshmen impress the crowd with their agility.

All photos byjmz
BROOKS ANl) K»\’I‘IE
HOWELL / THE RING-TUM

PH‘ HARDATWORK: ATheta concentrates
on her moves in the “ghetto mix”.

# 1 Spring Break Vacations!
BLING BLING! Lambda Chi pledge Jon Cochran Cancun’ Jamalca’ Bahamas’ & Fl?rlda'
entertains the Crowd with “Rappers Delight”. 015' 5i8EPﬁ€5hm€n PafolmmﬂeB‘~‘tterCUP"35[h€Mn11‘3€Aml809"- Best Parties, Best H0telS, Best Prlcesl
I - 1 5; I _ M I ‘I I I ~ Group Discounts, Group organizers travel free!
I: .' l h  V l :v ‘  "' .-  0 0 0
Best Seller Anal’ lmelns:  gm W9; 3 ham. W P Space 1S limited! Hurry up & Book Now!
2  ant _ S in [0wn_ ; cottage fundraismg made Sam!» Safari Tea». 6 1-800-234-7007
-    '  - ~ I -I . -*  . rt rs.com
Manama June 1_ _ A: m \ p  5 A www endlesssumme ou

laundrv nroviuerl. $5'.ilIIMo.   I .0   i “T

caluancv-Iameswm.wIooIeneaItsIaIe.       .     SENIORS-
463_m80 '  ' CHECK OUT A GREAT SUMMER JOB

iIN THE MEDICINE Bow MOUNTAINS
l

O0O0OOOICD000OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOCOO

APARTMENT FOR RENT
7 miles from Lexington
1 Bedroom, kitchen/living room,
private entrance
electric, water, heat included
please leave message 540 464 6698

OF SOUTHERN WYOMING.

I WWW.COOLWORKS.COM/ABARA HAS FULL

l INFORMATION ABOUT THE A BAR A GUEST

l RANCH.‘-l-HE MANAGER WILL BE ON CAMPUS

l INTERVIEWING ON FEBRUARY 5. EMAIL BOB

l HOWE AT ABARARANCH@AOL.COM TO SET UP AN
lINTERvIEw OR ASK QUESTIONS.

2 bedroom apartment for rent in Lexington
for next school year for $550.00 per month.
Living room/kitchen and 1 bath.

Low cost central heat and air conditioning.
Owner pays for water & sewer.
Common area washer & dryer.

Call Realtor Joe Vita at Vita & Associates, Inc.
at 463-9551 for details.

 

    

rER1Njirii7s
SPoRis EorroR
FNAIL: ]UlILTSF.@WLU.EDU

no: RIT\?G-°=’l’lIEYE

~ MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 2005

RY MARY CHRISTOPHER
SPORTS WRITER

‘I ‘ Having started training well before

Christmas break, the men and women
‘of the Washington and Lee track team
ﬁnally had their opportunity to shine.
The team arrived at Christopher New-

‘ port University, in New Port News, late
Friday afternoon and left early Satur-
day evening.

The distance squad returns only 5
runners from last year’s team: Steven
Chambers, ‘05; Rusty Meyer, ‘04; co-
captain Erin Johnson, ‘O4; Jessica
Remmert, ‘O5; and Samantha Snabes, ‘04.

Several cross country competi-

' tors from the fall season are running

this seasonAndrew Johnson, ‘06
David Hicks, ‘03 Norman Senior, ’05,
Betsy F rayer, ’06 and Liz Twentyman,
’06, Matthew Reilley, ‘O6. Mary Chris-
topher, ‘O6 also _join the roster.

Coach Amy Shuckert, the dis-
tance coach, believes “our distance/
middle-distance crew is a great group.
We have a few seasoned veterans who
will, most certainly, be strong leaders
for the young group. I’m looking for-
ward to seeing the debut performances
of Reilley and Christopher. I believe
those two have a lot of raw talent and
think they will prove to be strong com-
petitors this season.”

As for those who have run with
the team before, “Steve Chambers

P ORTS —--J
Trackteams get a speedy start to season

Fill

and Andrew Johnson were proven
performance leaders in the fall and I
believe their efforts will only continue
to pay off during track season. Meyer,
David Hicks, Snabes and Remmert are
all coming off of a solid cross country
season. Their hard work will continue
to pay dividends towards the success
of the team,” said Schuckert.

One problem the team had dur-
ing the fall season was injuries.

“We have suffered an unusual
arnountof injuries comingbackﬁombreak,
so right now we are in a bit of a transition
period with many of the runners. The good
news, however, is that Erin Johnson and
Liz Twentyman—who were injured dur-
ing the cross country season, are now

  

Poor. CHAT. W&L swimmer Drew Catanese speaks to team mates in the pool before Saturday’s meet.

iUlti i 1.forouae

Two DFAD GUYS. The frisbee team traveled to Florida last weekend for a toumament against dozens of other schools.

It
BY ERIN Jorrus

SPORTS EDITOR

For the first time ever this year,
'¥Washington and Lee can claim that is

has a legitimately organized Ultimate .

Frisbee team.

_ “We’ve been playing pick up
games forever, but this year Chris
Jordan and myself took the initia-
tive to recruit freshmen, and we also
got money from the EC and from the
service fraternity, Alpha Phi

KOmega...that got Two Dead Guys
off the ground,” said Timothy

Smith, ‘O4.

The money from the EC en-
abled the team to become members
in the Ultimate Frisbee Association
(the NFL of frisbee) and to buy uni-
forms. Membership in the Ultimate
Frisbee Association allows the

uxteam to play in all college tourna-
ments and in the regional tourna-
ment—it is a part ofthe Blue Ridge
Region. I
This year, the team has instituted
Regular Monday, Wednesday and Fri-
day practices.

W&L held its first Ultimate
tournament the first weekend of
November, out at the law fields.
Radford, James Madison Univer-
sity, Eastern Mennonite Univer-
sity and Liberty showed up for this
first-ever Mountain Cup. At that
tournament, W&L beat Liberty and
JMU but lost to Radford in the
Semis. Overall, the team placed
3rd.

Chris Jordan, ‘O3 who has been
playing in Ultimate pick-up games
since his freshman year, then found
out about the Florida Winter Clas-
sic at UF. The team decided to go,
“to gain experience, to see how we
stacked up against good teams
from the South, and also it was in-
tended to be sort of a treat to the
seniors who have played Frisbee
their whole 4 years here but haven’t
been able to go to tournaments due
to the lack of organization,” said
Smith.

Washington and Lee was one of
the smaller schools at the Florida
Winter Classic tournament. Of the
sixteen teams in attendance, only two

were Division III schools—W&L and
Emory.

“We played 7 games over all,
and only won one of them, but we
had a great time. It was deﬁnitely
challenging...it was tough to play
against bigger schools like Florida
and Georgia and Vanderbilt,” said
Smith.

Eleven team members traveled
to Florida with Smith and Jordan:
Trey Fogg, Justin Allegro, Matt
Kimbrough, Farhan Mustafa, John
Wright (all ’O3), Tom Hunt, Matt
Kilanski, Seth Jones, Peter Jones (all
’06), Dan Simmons and Eliot Hibbler
(both law students).

Ultimate Frisbee attracts different
people for different reasons.

» “The sport requires a lot of run-
ning, it’s a very laid back relaxed at-
mosphere,” said Jordan, “I’ve stuck
with it because I wanted to compete
and stay athletic, but, at the same time,
I didn’t want to put in the time re-
quired to participate in a varsity
sport.”

Senior Trey Fogg says he likes
that Ultimate is a pick—up sport be-

ERiN_Ii'ui'sﬂl)eRlng—lz4m Pbi

healthy and ready to go,” said Shuckert
The results of the meet are as fol-
lows: In the distance events AJ ran
the 3k in 9:31:07 and Christopher ran
the 1500 in 5:38:31. Samantha and Jes-
sica also showed a strong perfor-

mance in the 5K. In the mid distance

races Christopher, Johnson, and
Twentyman all ran the 800 at 2:37:56,
2:40:98, and 2:43: 1 1 respectively. The
sprint team also ran well. Jonathan
Brimer, Brian Krupczack, Joe Vitta, and
Hugo Diaz ran the 60 meter dash at
7:39, 7:47, 7:79, and 7:87; Brimer went
on to qualify for the Division 3 ﬁnals.

For the girls, Meredith Walker,
Kim Gunst, and Amy Bacastow ran at
times of8:96, 9:53, and 9:92. Meredith

BY JOHN HYLAND
SPORTS WRITER

Both the Washington and Lee men’s and women’s
swimming teams lost tough meets to two strong
Gettysburg squads Saturday at the Cy Twombley Pool in
what was the ﬁnal home meet of the season for both teams.

The women fell 162.5 to 79.5 to an undefeated
Gettysburg team to drop their‘ overall record to 7-3. The
men were defeated 134 to 106 to a Gettysburg squad that
has only one loss, which dropped their record to 4-5.

Despite the losses, the Generals had some outstand-

ing individual performances.

For the women, Beth Sauer ’O6 won the 100 and 200
breast stroke events. She won the 200 in a time 2:35.85,
breaking her own top time for W&L in this event.

Sauer’ s classmate, Kristine Holda won the 100
freestyle event in a time of 55.73 also establishing her own

team best for the season.

As for the men’s team, the Generals won the 200 med-
ley relay and, in the most exciting race of the afternoon,

l’lIOY()(10L‘RIl3YTl'Vl SMITH

cause he is never forced to show up
for practice but, “I can always rely on
the same core group of guys to be
there, along with a few new people. It
is also a fun and social sport and is a
great way to exercise,” he said.

I “I think it was impressive that
we were able to go to the tourna-
ment of this size in what is really
our first year of existence,” said
Smith, “hopefully next year we can
get recognition as an official club
sport, which should make the team
a permanent part of W&L athletics.”

“The tournament in Florida was
a great experience because we are
starting to set a standard for the un-
derclassmen, especially the fresh-
men,” said Fogg

Echoing Smith’s sentiments for
wanting Ultimate to remain a sport
at W&L, Jordan said, “A lot of
people don’t realize that Ultimate
is a very easy game to pick up and
that it is also co-ed... This year we
will enter a couple of more college
tournaments and maybe even host
another bigger tournament here at
W&L.”

  

went on to the ﬁnals for the girls. In
the 200 m run, Brimer ran a 24:22, Joe a
25:78, and Hugo a 25:90. Walker ran
the 200 in 29.58, Gunst in 30:67, and
Bacastow in 33 :09.

The ﬁeld team also performed
well. Audrey Walker threw shot at
31-4 for the women and Krupczack
threw 35-10 for the men.

The coaches plan to “gear to-
wards the outdoor season, using in-
doors as a preparation for our best
performances to come in the spring,”
and the team knows that “success will
be measured by individual improve-
ment which will build a strong foun-
dation for future success.”

Everyone is aware that instant

.Sm eamsfall‘ las hoe mee of season

PAGE 7

results are not what track and ﬁeld is
about and that everyone must have
determination and perseverance at all
times to meet the challenge of the sea-
son. Snabes feels that despite the
small size, “we have a bunch of en-
thusiastic and committed individuals
so I expect a good season.” The team
will focus on character and the big
picture to reach their long-term goals.
It requires a special person to take
on such a challenge, and Shuckert
knows “our group is willing and able
to accept such a challenge!”

The teams’ next meet isSaturday,
February 1 at neighbor Virginia Mili-
tary Institute, at what is known as the
VMI Relays.

W&L won the 200 freestyle relay to end the meet on a

positive note.

Individually, Eric Ritter, ’04, won the 100 and 200 back-

stroke events. Ritter won the 100 back in 53.80 to set the
top time of the season in this event. The two-time All-
American honoree is poised for a return trip to the NCAAs.

In addition, Chris Colby ’ 05 won the 200 butterﬂy,
Zach Fake ’03 won the 50 freestyle and Drew Catanese ’04
won the 100 butterﬂy. K

Prior to the meet the ﬁve seniors on the women’s
team, including co-captains Kelli Austin and Blair
Hoffman and the three seniors on the men’s team, in-

cluding co-captains Fake and Patrick Frankfort, were

introduced and honored for their commitment to the
W&L swimming program in what was the ﬁnal home
meet of their careers.

The women’s team closes out their regular season
with three meets on the road, beginning with Division I

foe, Radford, on January 26.

F.

FROM STAFF REPORTS

  Women’s Basketball loses

Emory, Va.- Washington and
Lee’swomen’sbasketballteamlostto

aftemoon;theﬁnalscorewas67-53.

Turnovers were detrimental to
W&L, as the Wasps converted the
General ’ s 1 Sturnoversinto l 9points.
The Waspshadonlytwoturnovers.

The Generals trailed by a small
margin,27-26,goingintothehalﬁbut
were outscored 40-27 by the Wasps
duringthesecondhalf

Individually, the Generals
turned in some strong performances.
Forward Sarah Michaels, ’04, had a
game-high of 22 points and grabbed
seven rebounds.

GuardLousiaFeve, ’ 06,addedl 3
pointswhileforwardEmilyBarker,‘05,

‘ postedl 1. ‘

Center Austin Calhoun, -03,
grabbedagame-higheightboards.

W&L faces EMU at home on
Tuesdayevening. The gamebegins at
7.

Men ’s hoops loses

Lee’s men’s basketball team lost to
Virginia Wesleyan Saturday after-
noon 71-49. Virginia Wesleyan had
a distinct advantage at the halﬁ lead-
ing 31-19.

comeback, closing the gap until they

Emory and Henry on Satutdayp

Norfolk, Va.- Washington and 9

W&L launched a second-half

The men ﬁnish their regular season on February 1
against both Johns Hopkins and Marymount.

Away, losses abound

were only down by ﬁve, 37-32. The
Generals never managed to follow
through with a comeback, however,
and were outscored 43- 17 by the
Marlins during the remaining 14:49.

Forward David Will, ’06, had a
team-high of 16 points. Guard Mike
Stuart, ’05, posted nine points while
forward Scott Hettermann, ’03,
chipped in eight points and ﬁve
boards.

Wrestlers take one win,
two losses at McDaniel

Westminster, Md.- Washington
and Lee’s wrestling team competed
in the McDaniel Quadrangular Sat-
urday afternoon. W&L defeated
Galludet (40-12) before losing to
Ursinus (48-3) and McDaniel (35-
12).

Michael Bennett, ’04, won all
three of his matches at 197. He ﬁrst
pinned Magguldet’s Dennis Cruz in
2:06, took a 9-5 decision against
Irsinus’s Sebastian Voltarelli and

handled McDaniel’s Adam Dayton, '

14-6.

Brian Avello, ’05, went 2-1
at 174. He won by forfeit
against Galludet, but was then
pinned by Ursinus’s Mike
Troutman. Avello came back to
pin McDaniel’s Caleb Moore in
2:14.

W&L will next take the mat on
Saturday, when they compete in the
Muhlenberg Triangular. Matches
will start at 12.

PAGE 8

     

 
 

DEFEAT. Senior captain Scott Hetteiman takes a fall during Wednesdays game.

BY ALUSON PERRY
SPORTS WRITER

The Emory and Henry men’s basketball
team slipped by the Generals Wednesday night
with a 75-73 win in Warner Center. Junior guard
Justin Call carried the Wasps with a career-high
46 points and seven three-pointers. The Gen-
eral, however, stayed close, never letting E&H
take more than a ﬁve point lead.

W&L sophomore guard Mike Stuart scored
l5 of his total 23 points in the first half, ﬁfteen
of which were from three-point range.

Freshman forward Phil Landes added 1 1
points.

Senior captain Scott Hetterman also added
two dunks to contribute to his seven points in
the first half.

The Generals took the lead six times before
half-time, but a three-pointer by E&H sopho-
more guard Ben Fisher with six seconds left in
the half let the Wasps take a lead of 46-45.

At the beginning of the second half, the
Generals took their highest lead, leading by six
points.

The game went back and forth until E&H
took the lead for good with a layup by Call with
a little over two minutes left.

Stuart brought the game within two after
making a shot and then a free throw at three sec-
onds. Fisher was then fouled but missed both of
his shots before the Wasps took the win.

W&L held E&H to 30.4 percent shooting,
down from 60 percent in the first half.

Sophomore guard Ian McClure, who leads the
team in three—point percentage with 34.7 percent,
posted ten of his thirteen points in the second half. .



Setbll fa1tE

ﬁn

Kmir. l'lOWIilL/ lbeRing-tum Pbz’

McClure said the Generals needed to do a
better job of getting on defense. “Emory and
Henry loves to push the ball up the court,” he
said. “They were just faster.”

Junior Captain Michael Denbow averages
3.1 assists per game and agreed that transition
defense and turnovers needed to be worked on.
The Generals had a season-high of 26 turnovers
for the game. On a positive note, Denbow said,
“Our shooting is back, and we had better team
defense.”

Wednesday night’s game was E&H’s ﬁrst
win in Warner Center since the 1996-1997 sea-
son. The win put them at 8-7 overall and 4-5 in
the ODAC.

The Generals will have until February 5“‘ to
prepare for the Wasps again when they play
them in Emory.

McClure suggested possibly going to a
zone defense to help shut down Justin Call.
Denbow thinks the team should continue to
build team defense and limit the turnovers next
time. '

The Generals played at Virginia
Wesleyan on Saturday and came home with
a loss of71-49. W&L lost to the Marlins 54-
70 at the beginning of January. VWC is
ranked 4"‘ in the South Region poll and 26”‘ in
the January 21“ D3Hoops poll ofDivision lll
national leaders.

The Generals also had a game Sunday at
Randolph-Macon. The Yellow Jackets are
ranked 4”‘ in the D3Hoops poll and 2"“ in the
South Region coaches’ poll. Results were not
available at press time. They play next on Tues-
day for a non-conference match-up at McDaniel
at 7:00 p.m.

MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 2003,:

w{¢

Sports  
Events
January 27-

February 2

Men’s Basketball 7

Tuesday, Jan. 28 the Generals
will take on McDaniel away at 7
V p.m.

Wednesday, Jan. 29, the team
takes Bridwater at home at 7 pm.

Saturday, Feb. 1, the team will
take Roanoke away at 7 p.m.

Women’s Basketball

Tuesday, Jan. 28 at home, the
Lady General ’s will take EMU
at 7 p.m.

Friday, Jan. 31 the team goes on
the road to Roanoke to play at
Swimming

Saturday, Feb. 1 the swimmers
fo to Johns Hopkins at 10 a.m.

Saturday, February 1, the
General’s travel to Marymount
for a 5 p.m. match.

Track

Saturday, Feb. 1 track goes next
door to VMI. Time TBA.

Wrestling

Saturday, Feb. 1 General’s go
to Muhlenburg at 12 p.m.

I’

1'

Write for the Phi sports
section. Contact Erin Julius at
x4060 for more information.

1<ul1'eHoueMl9eRing—TuPbi

DUNK. Senior captain Scott Hetterrnan hangs from the basket after scoiing in Wednesday s narrow loss.

Open to

Don't Let This Happen to
You at Your Interview!

 

  Etiquette Dinner
Monday, February 10*“
University Center, 6:00 PM
Cost is $10 - Charge it home!

Juniors & Seniors

Come to Career Services by Feb. 5*“ to Sign Up
Space is Limited, so Don't Delay!

  ARE ER
‘ ‘€35.-X?§¥-l§.\é£,i-£'§‘{ l2:‘*~£ .«“x'.‘\‘i') §:.,§i'§%l 1. }7’~>£{\-"i?,i%<i§’«'§’i"’$."

ERVICES

Undergraduate Admissions Counselor

The Washington and Lee Undergraduate Office of Admissions wishes to
announce possible openings for Admissions Counselors. Responsibilities
include: student interviews, application evaluation, and recruitment travel.
Strong communication skills and demonstrated organizational abilities are
expected. The successful candidate will be both willing and able to work
as part of a highly successful admissions team, yet capable of creative self-
direction. Some evening and weekend work is necessary.

Bachelor’s degree is required, as is a valid driver’s license. All interested
candidates should submit a cover letter and resume, including two refer-
ences, no later than Friday, February 14. All materials should be sent to:

Julia M.,Kozak
Associate Dean of Admissions :

Office of Admissions -
Lexington, VA 24450

OOQOOOOOVOOOOO§OOOOOO_:~OO'OOOOOO

WANTED: Summer Scholars Counselors
June 25 - July 26, 2003
Are you looking for a great chance to be a mentor and to
experience working with high school students while staying
at W&L for the month of July? The Washington and Lee
Summer Scholars Program is an exciting four week aca-
demic program for approximately 150 rising high school
seniors. We are looking for responsible students to help
guide participants and to plan extracurricular activities such
as talent shows, lip synchs, weekend hikes, trips to Goshen
and more.
For information about the position please contact Dr. Mimi
Milner Elrod at 458-8727. You may pick up an application
from Jennifer Lotts (458-8722) in the Summer Scholars
Office located in the Hill House.
The deadline for turning in applications is February 28,
2003.

3:

ii



OOOO&OOOOOO:OO

4-’

 

