 

  

U112 ﬂing-1

  

 

  

uinram

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNrvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

4 VOLUME 102, No.9

omophobic

.incidents spur
. controversy

Radio show, campaign posters attack
homosexuals and student body president

By Polly Doig

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

Twojuniors, one who campaigned
for ofﬁce on an anti-homosexual plat-
form, and another who publicly attacked
Executive Committee president Jeff
Cook, have come under ﬁre themselves.

In his WLUR radio show from 4 pm
to 6 pm Wednesday, DJ Rich Groner
made remarks which criticized Cook's
sexuality. WLUR general manager and
faculty adviser Bob de Maria received
several complaints following the show.

"I got a call. . . telling me that some
'meathead DJ’ had slammed a guy, call-
ing hirn "Jeff Crook," de Maria said. "I
was really kind of furious because
[Groner] had been on the air since his
freshman year and knew better. Unless
you have a program that involves opin-
ion, you are to keep your mouth shut
on things like that."

According students who heard the
show, Groner had an unidentiﬁed guest,
"Crook" on the show, who spoke in a
femenine voice and made disparaging
remarks about homosexuals.

When reached for comment, Cook
said that "the remarks were inappropri-
ate and offensive."

De Maria said that he met with
Groner to discuss his actions.

"He didn't show me any kind of con-
trition, and was not able to give me any
kind of explanation," de Maria said.
"That ﬂies about as well as a lead bal-
loon. Is it a sin that a guy's homosexual
or that a woman's a lesbian, or that a
person's black?"

According to de Maria, comments
like Groner‘s can lead to complaints to

the FCC, and the possible loss of their
license. Staff members of WLUR have

since recorded a public apology that
they will play repeatedly over the air
throughout the next week. In addition,
Groner has been suspended from hav-
ing a radio show for the remainder of
the year, and met with Dean of Students
David Howison.

"Bascially I'm waiting to see what
he does," Howison said. "I felt that the
action taken by the radio station was
the appropriate action, and in talking
to the student I sensed that he had
learned a valuable lesson."

The other incident involved John
Herbert, who ran unopposed in his
successful race for junior class presi-
dent. Herbert distributed posters which
said "I'll be straight with you." When
questioned, Herbert admitted to run-
ning his campaign on an anti-homo-
sexual platform.

In response to the posters, junior
Meisha Jackson has started a petition
in protest.

"My purpose with the petition,"is
not necessarily to get him out of ofﬁce,
but rather to raise awareness that this
is who the president of the Class of 2001
is," Jackson said.

‘'1 think that such blatant intolerance
is completely unnecessary, and the time
for that is past. Basically I want to get
the point across to Mr. Herbert that the
W&L student body does not share his
sentiments."

Jackson began her petition this

LExINGToN, VIRGINIA 24450

“IF I HAD A HAMMER.” Freshman Stephen Koss works on a Project Horizon house Saturday.

weekend, and will distribute it at meet-
ings of the Women's'Forum, the Mi-
nority Student Association, the Inter-
national Club and several sororities
early this week. In addition, she will be
in front of the Co-op much of the week
soliciting signatures.

The incidents come on the heels of
another at the Kappa Sigma fraternity,

SEE ‘CONFLICT’ ON PAGE 2

SK charity race a success

More than 60 student runners hit the streets in Theta/KA run

By Mike Crittenden

NEWS EDITOR

The streets of Lexington had a new
sound Saturday, as the sound of
student’s footsteps resonated through
town in the first annual Theta/KA 5K
run for charity. With an entry fee of only
$5, many students took the time to get
some exercise and donate some money
to charity.

“The turnout was great,” said Dana
Early, the run coordinator for Theta. “We
had over 200 donations.”

Beginning Saturday morning at 11
a.m., the course started at the gym and
weaved through Lexington, eventually

ﬁnishing at the gym. Signs and orange-
clad volunteers pointed the way, keep-
ing runners from yawing offcourse.

“It was a really good course, both
challenging and fun,” said junior Tim
Cormier, who came in 6th out of the 60-
plus runners who participated. “I was
happy to do something that helps out
a good cause.”

The proceeds from the beneﬁt were
split evenly between Theta’s national
philanthropic organization C.A.S.A.
(Court Appointed Special Advocates),
and KA’s national charity the Muscu-
lar Dystrophy Association. According
to race organizers the race turned out

to be a great success.
1

“We wanted to do this race so that
the whole school could participate in
it,” said Early. “We thought it was a
good idea because it would be a lot of
fun and we could raise a lot of money.
It worked out great.”

The ﬁve kilometer race was won by
junior Brian Ceneviva, who plays base-
ball for the Generals. The top three men
and top three women all received prizes
for being the top fmishers.

When asked whether he would par-
ticipate next year, Corrnier said he’d be
there for sure.

“It’s a great idea and was a lot of fun
to do. I’ll be looking forward to next

99

year.

 

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

YOU WANT FRIES WITH THAT? Junior Carly Blakelock and senior Erick Englebert chomp on
hotdogs at the Manhattan Hot Dog eating contest.

MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1999

Busted?

New alcohol policy
clears up questions

By Mike Crittenden

NEWS EDITOR

When Resident Assistant Erika
Cassutti recently saw a sophomore
entering Woods Creek apartments
with a case of beer over his shoulder,
she immediately confronted the young
man, conﬁscated the alcohol, and in-
formed the man he had to pay a ﬁne
and serve hours in the dining hall. If
this had occurred in the freshman
dorms however, it might have had a
different result before a new alcohol
policy was instituted this week by the
residence life staff.

According to the new policy, “if
any student is apprehended with al-
cohol in the freshmen residence halls,
he/she will be given a $75 ﬁne and six
hours of work in the Dining Hall.”
Though the freshmen dorms have al-
ways been alcohol-free, the new policy
is intended to help residents and visi-
tors understand the sometimes vague
policy.

“The student body needs to have
a crystal-clear understanding of all of
the policies in the dorms," said Dean
of Freshman Mark Dalhouse. “In the
past their has been some ambiguity
about whether or not upperclassmen
in the dorms can be punished for pos-
sessing alcohol. This makes it ex-
tremely clear.”

According to Dalhouse the change
in policy was not precipitated by any

*.

 l_ ,_ 
3

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
SEE ‘POLICY’ ON PAGE 2

 

Panhel to
give out
scholarship

By Mike Crittenden

NEWS EDITOR

Washington and Lee sorority
women now have the opportunity to
earn a scholarship for their involve-
ment in their sororities and the Wash-
ington and Lee community.

The $500 scholarship is being
given in honor ofthe 10"‘ anniversary
of Washington and Lee’s Panhellenic
Council, and the National Panhellenic
Council's Week ofthe Scholar. Each
of Washington and Lee’s ﬁve sorori-
ties were asked to nominate one or two
members based on involvement and a
minimum G.P.A. of2.5, according to
Panhellenic member Katie Boening.

Said Boening, “We thought it would
be good to celebrate our l0"‘ year by

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
READY, STEADY, GO! Runners await the start of the Theta/KA

run for charity that ran them from Doremus Gym through town.

@112 ﬂing-tum lﬁhi
October 4, 1999

OPINION:
Fruit-pelting pygmy tree girls

W&LIFE:

And the nominees are. . .

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

SPORTS:

VOlleyball’s run on ODAC continues
LAST WORD: PAGE 5
The Pope’s PR crusade

PAGE 6

 

 

PAGE 2

F I @112 ﬁling-tum MES

OCTOBER 4, 1999

‘SCHOLARSHIP’ from page 1

recognizing Greek women who con-
tribute both to their individual chap-
ters and to the Washington and Lee
community as a whole.”

The 10 women who were nomi-
nated were asked to complete an ap-
plication about themselves that was
due this week. The applications are
going to be examined by a committee
of Panhellenic Council members and
faculty advisors, from which a winner
will be chosen.

‘POLICY’ from page 1

particular event, but that the change
is very important to all residents.

“The fact is, alcohol in the dorms
is not conducive to the academic mis-
sion ofthis university. This change
will help reemphasize that this con-
duct will not be tolerated in the
dorms,” said Dalhouse.

This year there have been no re-
ported cases of students being caught
with alcohol in the dorms, but accord-
ing to Assistant Head Dorm Counse-
lor Jim McKnight, it becomes a large
problem as the year goes on.

‘CoNFL1CT’————
from page 1

in which a senior brother made anti-
semitic and racist remarks to two enter-
ing freshmen prior to matriculation. One
of the freshmen involved subsequently
withdrew from the university as a di-
rect result. The senior has been placed
on conduct probation for the remain-
der of the year, and suspended from
Kappa Sigma.

In an open letter to the student body
following the case, W&L president
John Elrod stated that no student
"should ever be made to feel unwel-
come because of an offensive remark
about his or her ethnic or racial back-
ground and heritage. There is abso-
lutely no place at this University for
this sort of verbal behavior."

"Here we are, looking at the year
2000," deMaria said, "and we still have

folks looking at people who are of a ‘ A
different sexual orientation with a pre- ~

1940's attitude." '

“It will be a difficult decision to
make,” said Boening. “All of the
women nominated are excellent candi-
dates.”

Panhellenic Council member Eliza-
beth Holleman agreed, saying that
“while difficult to make, the decision
would be a positive experience for all
sorority women.”

“It’s just real exciting that we had
the money in the budget to do this,”
said Holleman. “It’s good to see some-

thing that we were talking about last
spring come to pass.”

The scholarship will be awarded at
next Tuesday's “Meet the Greeks” func-
tion, a chance for all Washington and
Lee women interested in rushing a so-
rority this year to meet members of
W&L’s five sororities. The meeting will
be held from 4-6 p.m. at the Liberty Hall
Ruins, and is open to any W&L women
who are interested or curious about the
Greek system.

 

“Because there are so many par-
ties right now, there is no reason for
the kids to drink in the dorms. As the
year goes on and the number of par-
ties is reduced and the freshmenjoin
different organizations, the drinking
in the dorms increases and that’s
when we have a problem,” said
McKnight.

Both McKnight and Head Dorm
Counselor Kelly Stuart say the new
policy will help the resident life staff
better enforce the school’s policies,
and help to clarjfv the rules for i’l'1f\QP

.IN.b_1Al_\LSUMMER. --A fresh-man sits reading’ i

involved.

Said Stuart, “The freshmen dorms
have always been alcohol-free. We’re
just trying a little harder to discour-
age upperclass students from con-
tributing to the problem.”

Stuart also said it seemed “pa-
thetic” for an upperclassmen to be
caught in the dorms drinking for any
reason.

“I would hope that an upperclass-
man would have better options of
places to drink than the freshman
dnrms anvwav.”

 

photo by Emily BaePhoto Edtor
n the Graham-lees

quad, enjoying the warm weather.

 
   

    

 
  

E-mail General Notes to 

‘phi@wlu.edu ’ P,.,,;," ..

 

Hospice sponsors “Hustle”

The Rockbridge Area Hospice will be sponsoring its
3rd Annual Hospice Hustle on Sunday, October 17, 1999.
The walk will serve as a fundraiser for the hospice and
will benefit all persons involved directly and indirectly
with hospice care.

The walk will begin at 2 p.m. at Rockbridge Area Hos-
pice, located at 129 South Randolph Street. The hustle
will conclude when all participants have completed the
course.

Groups, organizations and individuals are invited to
attend. The cost for each person will be a 15 dollar mini-
mum, though children under six are free. Sponsorship of
participants is encouraged.

Participants are encouraged to registar before the walk
to ensure they receive a free t-shirt. They can, however,
register the day of the race if needed. Persons interested
in volunteering but who prefer not to walk are also wel-
come.

For any additional information, please call the hospice
at463-1848.

Homecoming Weekend to be held

Several hundred alumni are expected back on Wash-
ington and Lee's campus for this year's Homecoming fes-
tivities on October 8 and 9. Highlighting this year's Home-
coming will be a Beta House Reunion and the alumni
office's first Leadership Forum, a program for young
alumni chapter leaders. Nearly 100 members of the Beta
Theta Pi fraternity, from as far back as 1941, are registered
for the Beta House Reunion.

On Friday, at 12:10 p.m. in the Moot Courtroom of
Sydney Lewis Hall, professor Lawrence Lessig of the
Harvard Law School will deliver the 51st annual John
Randolph Tucker Lecture. Saturday events include a me-
morial service for former history professor Charles Turner
at 10 a.m. in Lee Chapel, women's soccer against
Bridgewater at 10:30 a.m. on the Liberty Hall Fields and
the football game against Davidson at 1:30 p.m. on Wil-
son Field.

Hooks receives research grant

Linda Hooks, associate professor of economics at
Washington and Lee University, received a grant from
the AAUW Educational Foundation to work on a research
project called "The Impact of Banks on Economic Growth:
Historical Evidence from Texas." The project will investi-
gate the importance of banks to growth in the rural U.S.

A in the early 1990s.

The primary purpose of the AAUW Educational Foun-

dation American postdoctoral research fellowships is to
increase the number of women in tenure-track faculty po-
sitions and promote equity for women in higher educa-
tion. The foundation is one of the nation's largest sources
of private funding for educational programs that directly
benefits women and girls, and it provides fellowships
and grants to more than 300 women around the world.

Hooksjoined the W&L faculty in 1993, and her fields
of research include monetary economics and banking.
She teaches undergraduate courses in money and bank-
ing and a seminar on the European monetary union. Prior
tojoining W&L, Hooks was an economist in the financial
industry studies department at the Federal Reserve Bank
of Dallas. She received her MA. and Ph.D. from the Uni-
versity of California at Los Angeles.

W&L hosts 8th annual Writer's

Harvest
Washington and Lee's contribution to the eighth an-
nual Writer's Harvest will take place in duPont Audito-
rium at 7 p.m. on Tuesday, Oct. 12. The Writer's Harvest,
the nation's largest literary benefit to fight hunger and

poverty, boasts readings by more than 2,000 writers in i

600 locations nationwide each year. While in years past,
writers have shared both poetry and prose nationwide
on the same night, this year's readings are being held in
accordance with local needs.

Reading this year are Charlotte Morgan, Michael
McClure and R.T. Smith; student readers include Jennifer
Quail, David Hanson and Anna Baker, all poets.

"Through Writer's Harvest we can add to the great
gifts of literature affords us: an opportunity to feed the
hungry," says 1999 national chair Alice McDermott. "We
can transform what might be called the writer's spiritual
work of mercy-the sharing of the written word-into a cor-
poreal work of mercy as well." The benefit has raised
more than $750,000 since 1992 to fight hunger and pov-
erty. One hundred percent of the event proceeds go di-
rectly to statewide anti-hunger and anti-poverty efforts.

Charlotte Morgan, a local novelist, is the author of
One August Day, nominated by the Library of Virginia for
its 1999 Fiction Award. Her stories have been published
in Potomac Review and Phoebe. Morgan is also a recipi-
ent of the Sherwood Anderson Prize for short fiction and
the Virginia Highlands Prize for her novel. Smith, editor of
W&L's literary quarterly, Shenandoah, and author of Split
the Lark, will read poems by Irish writers. McClure is a
visiting professor in the W&L English department.

Quail, a senior, hails from Trenton, Mich., and is an
archeology/anthropology major. Hanson, also a senior,
lives in Smyrna, Ga., and is double majoring in English
and geology. Baker, from Baton Rouge, La., is ajunior
and plans to major in English and Joumalism/Mass Com-
munications.

For more information, please call R.T. Smith at 463-

-3908.. 1 ».~ .r..

..n

RAAXX99C79

 

Capital One®

 

Capital One...One of the 100 Best Companies to Work ".¥—F0rturze®(1/11/99)

Capital One recognized as one of the25 champs of
strong growth ~=-"—F0rbe$ (4/21/98)

on—campus events!

WE’RE GROWING LIKE NEVER BEFORE! Join the Capital One team
and you’ll enjoy great pay and fabulous benef1ts—like full medical and
dental coverage from day one, a generous vacation package and tuition
reimbursement.So, if you’re looking for a company with a bright future,
a challenging, fast—paced work environment, great beneﬁts and great

people, you owe it to yourself, and your career, to attend Capital One’s

Capital One number 15 of the top 50 performers on the S&P   '—Bu5inessWeek(3/29/99)

 

Please join us for the following Capital One events:
Career Information Booth: Wed., Oct. 6
outside the Co-Op from 11 a.m.—2 p.m.

Company Presentation: Wed., Oct. 6
in UC-114 at 7:00 p.m.
Opportunities available in Project Management.
All majors encouraged to attend.

GREAT CAREER

GREAT COMPENSATION

Capital One is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity in the workplace. We promote (I drug-free work envimrzmerit.

GREAT BENEFITS

P

 

 

OCTOBER 4, 1999

Gay remarks

not appreciated

Is it really any of your business if Jeff Cook is gay?

That’s right. Jeff Cook — excellent student, frat guy,
student leader and all-around nice guy. Yeah. He’s gay. He’s
out of the closet. How does this affect you or the majority of
the student body?

The reality is that Cook’s sexuality doesn’t affect anyone
but him and whoever he is dating — just like the rest of us on
campus.

There has been a recent ﬂurry of anti-gay remarks on
campus. A student running for junior president promises
that he’ll be “STRAIGHT” with you. Another student paro-
dies Cook on his radio show, mainly because Cook is gay, yet

without any legitimate provocation. Put yourself in this situ-
ation. What if someone started talking about you over the air,
by name, about
your drunken
hijinks from last
w e e k e n d .
Chances are,
you’d be ticked
off, and you would be entitled to your anger. But because
Cook is openly gay, somehow he’s supposed to suck it up
and ﬂoveon. _, 

Gay jokes are really funny around this campus. Tell a
gay joke and you get a laugh. Insert any other racial/
ethnic slur into that joke, and suddenly, it’s not that funny.
Someone might even tell you that you’re not funny at all.
On most campuses, someone would tell you to shut up
because you’re racist, or in this case, homophobic.

While W&L may have a small racial and ethnic minor-
ity population, gay populations are about the same wher-
ever you go. A study once approximated that 10% of the
overall population is gay. Now just because someone is
gay doesn’t mean that they’re open about it. There are
gays all over this campus and you don’t know. It’s the one
rumor that hasn’t made it all over the incestuous little circle
of W&L — ”Hey...so-and-so is gay!”

Maybe being from outside of Washington, D.C., I’m
used to a mixture of people. I went to high school with
homosexuals, I work with homosexuals, I’m friends with
homosexuals. Folks, WAKE UP. It’s not a big deal. Your
sex life is no one’s business but your own; the same atti-
tude should be applied to those whose sexual tastes are
different from yours. For some reason, society has stated
that homosexuals are weird and different and odd. If you
feel that way, that’s your business. But the only difference
quite honestly is that sex is a bit different for them. It doesn’t
affect work ethic, personality, personal ethics, etc.It’s just
another little part that makes up a person’s description. It’s
not something to base your campaign on, or make fun of,
or to talk about incessantly.

Grow up, folks. In the real world, you’ll be working with all
sorts of people. Being racist, homophobic, or just a exclusive
snob in general isn’t going to get you anywhere. W&L fosters
this behavior simply because we encourage conformity. Don’t
speak up, don’t speak out, don’t cause a stir. Well I disagree.
It’s time to speak up, speak out and cause one hell of a ruckus.
Quit focusing on the little stuff that doesn’t matter and focus
on the issues. If you need a campaign platform, choose a posi-
tion on white book refonn, or the 95 theses or something that
affects the entire campus. If you need something to talk about
on the radio, talk about something that’s pertinent to you and
the campus. Somebody’s sexuality doesn’t count.

Homosexual isn’t a dirty word. It’ s a descriptive word, like
heterosexual. I’m not saying you have to approve of homo-
sexuality, but whatever Cook or any other person (gay or
not) does behind closed doors is their business and only
their business. You don’t have to like it or not like it, be-
cause in the end —— it’s none of your business.

_ Coffee Talk
l Heather McDonald 01

 

@112 ﬂing-tum {ﬂirt

Polly Doig
Hollister Hovey
Michael Crittenden
Stephanie Bianco
Ginger Phillips
Elianna Marziani
Frances Groberg
Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin
Heather McDonald
Emily Barnes

Executive Editor
Associate Editor
News Editor
Opinions Editor
W&Life Editors

Sports Editors
Last Word Editor

Copy Editor
Photo Editor

Assistant Photo Editor Lisa Lin
Online Editor Ali Soydan
Layout Editor Neal Willetts
Circulation Director Leo Brown

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-turn Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wIu.edu
http://wIu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: 830

 : iﬂing-tum iﬂlii

To those who are friends,
thanks for “being there”

I watched Wayne Gretzky’s jersey be retired on Fri-
day night, which I admit is not very consequential, but
as a hockey fan I did find it rather interesting to watch
one of the greatest athletes of all time say good—bye.
However, what stays with me now is not the picture of
the famous #99 being lifted into the rafters, but rather
the picture of three of Gretzky’s
former teammates who made the
long trip to Edmonton to pay trib-
ute to the Great One.

Though not a huge sacrifice
for a retired pro athlete, it still
made me think about those around me who have been
there for me, and the Washington and Lee community
itself. I won’t say I’ve always had it the easiest here in
good old Lexington; not that it has been especially bad,
but we all have our times at the bottom of the barrel.
This is the nature of man though, so I guess I can’t
complain too much. We are always seeking more; more
happiness, more satisfaction, more material gain.

Unfortunately, these ideals of more, more, more are
always growing, with us always out of reach. Even if
we did get what we want, I have no doubt that all but
the most virtuous of us would turn around and try to
get the next best thing. This inability to stay in a state
of happiness leads us to occasionally come down with
a case of the blues. Luckily, Nature has also provided
us with a cure, and that is friendship. As Aristotle says
in the Politics, “there must be a union of those who

.-'~».

 

%

I’ I
\\ _, uote of the Week:
‘#4.,

I don’t know where I am. I’m
in a small, dark room with
really close walls next to

naked girl and I think it’ s
in a brick building.

—— W&L student’s friend from home

(I

}}

TALKback...

9 .‘.'%

“Anything, but homecoming at home in

New York. Everyone came hammered and

a few ﬁghts would break out - always.”
-Andrew Liberth ’03

Bad<p0rth Balderdash
Michael Crittenden ’01

cannot exist without each other.”

The reason we form this union is because we do
need each other; to make each other happy when times
are hard, and to be there for others, working together
towards a common human goal. Friendship is thus
borne from the root of man himselfin his natural state.

For this reason I felt a bit of
nostalgia and thankfulness
watching the ceremony in
Edmonton (I know, no one here
understands hockey, but try to
follow the analogy), because I’ve
been the recipient of an amazing amount of friendship
and caring recently. I guess it is something many of us
take for granted on a day-to-day basis, but when you
need it and you realize people are there for you, it means
a lot.

So thanks to all of you who’ve had my back the last
couple ofweeks (especially Nick, who’s a hell ofa good
guy and has taught me that New Jersey’s not that bad
a place after all). Ijust hope I won’t miss the chance to
do the same for you guys. I have also realized some-
thing about the quality of person here at Washington
and Lee. The people here are down-home good people.
As opposed to popular opinion, the people here aren’t
always apathetic and shallow. The people here do care
about something: the W&L community. I learned this
week firsthand about our family, and am glad I did.
Thanks. '

“A big parade with ﬂoats, contests,
and a day-long party.”
-Alex Poor ’03

Correction:

  

fessor Claudette Artwick was..said  if P’ A
have cancelled her broadcastjjjlab
classes all last week. This was 
rect. The lab was held only without
computers. We apologize.~,for_’any
confusion this may have caused.

 In last week’s issue ofthe  

 

PAGE 3

Watch out for
the tree girl

This past Friday, I was walking to my car after class
when a pygmy tree girl started screaming obscenities
at me and pelting me with half-eaten fruit. Since I had
not eaten all day, the half-eaten fruit was quite a treat.
She had some kiwi, bananas and even some pineapple.
I must say, pineapple probably holds the number one
spot in my heart when it comes to produce. Tangerines
following in a close second, however. I often wonder
why we have preferences for different foods. Is it really
the taste? Or does it have to do more with the experi-
ences that we associate with those foods. In all actual-
ity, I suppose that it’s a combination of the two.

For example, I like oranges much more than bananas.
Do oranges really have a better taste to me? Perhaps.
Or perhaps, the
time when my
brother threw
up banana on
me when I was
four has some-
thing to do with it. For some reason I always associate
bananas with vomit. ‘

I like spinach, too. Admittedly, however, it isn’t the
tastiest thing in the world. I think I like it because one
night at dinner we had spinach. I finished mine. I guess
I was really hungry. My brother didn’t finish his spin-
ach. My parents chided Doug for not eating his veg-
etables and praised me for eating mine. (Something the
Psychology Department surely wouldn’t approve of.)
In any case, I got to have lemon meringue pie after din-
ner. Doug had to eat lots of raisins.

He got me back though. Later on he tickled me until
I peed on myself. That was his usual mode of retalia-
tion. It did have some good. I now have an unexplain-
able immunity to tickling. Actually I guess he only used
the tickle torture when he was in a good mood, other-
wise he would just beat the tar out of me. I think his
constant beatings wore me down, broke my spirit. That’s
why I quickly succumb to the appeals of others.

By third grade, even the kindergarten girls knew that
they could kick my ass. Actually, that’s not true. It was
only that one girl. She was one mean little tyke. Sev-
enty-two pounds of fighting machine that Mary was. I
wouldn’t be surprised if she was one of those female
boxers these days. Those ladies scare me.

Who am I kidding? Laxative commercials scare me,
except for that one with the old lady who keeps telling
everyone about her husband’s loose bowels. That al-
ways cracks ‘me up.

I can see my mom being that lady. She likes to tell
everyone my business. Prom night, for example, when
we went out to dinner, I think she enjoyed telling the
waitress that I didn’t have a date. They both had a good
laugh about that. “He’s a smart boy, sometimes. Other
times I wonder where he came from. In any case, he
needs some social skills.” Well, morn, maybe I do. Maybe
I do.

 . 
if Stephen Pesce ’O1

 

LETTER To
THE EDITOR

WLUR apologizes for slurs

Dear Editor,

Last week, during an afternoon broadcast, a staff
member of WLUR lampooned student body presi-
dent Jeff Cook. The lampooning went beyond the
boundaries of common decency and good taste. I have
received several complaints about the contents of that
particular broadcast.

On Thursday, I met with Mr. Cook and issued an
apology on behalf of myself and the entire radio sta-
tion staff. This letter is an open apology to the entire
University community. We do not want the immature
actions of one reﬂect badly upon the entire staff.

We have taken measures to insure that these kinds
of events will not happen again. Let me assure the
members of this community that WLUR wants its staff
and programming to serve the entire community.

Robert J. de Maria
General Manager and Faculty Adviser, WLUR

If you could have it your way,
what would Homecoming be like?

    

“Theme parties all over campus, with

different years would dress up and there’d

be a competition between the classes.”
—Catherine Henson ’03

“A big dance with the whole school-not
as fancy as FD-and a pep rally on
Friday, like real schools do.”

-Pauli Griﬂith ’0l

 

 

cutie ﬂung-oium 1131):

IFE

  

&

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 
    

 

 

 

L
PAGE 4 OCTOBER 4, 1999
1  HOIIIBC . Q ° 1 t d
J.
L
Lindsay Gatling ‘00 Nancy Dixon ‘00 Julie Horwitz ‘00 Mary Elizabeth Winfrey ‘00 Deirdre Coyle ‘00 Carson Chambers ‘00 Caroline Cobb ‘00
Beta Chi 0 Chi Psi KA Theta KD Kappa ?
Escort: Mike Malone ‘00 Escort: Drew Hess ‘02 Escort: Alex Stiles ‘00 Escort: Peer Segelke ‘01 Escort: Scott LeTourneau ‘00 Escort: Brian Brantley ‘00 Escort: Pullen Daniel ‘00
in
.'n.
h
Kelly Sewell ‘00 Renita Perkins ‘00 Athena Mahoney ‘00 Alison Ralston ‘00 Jen Davis ‘01 9 Ashley Davis ‘00 Kristen Burr ‘00
Kappa Sig MSA Phi Delt Fiji Phi Kap Phi Psi Pi Beta Phi
Escort: Lee Holland ‘00 Escort: Quincy Springs ‘02 Escort: Charles Elrod ‘00 Escort: Sean Eddy ‘00 Escort: Scott Guggenheimer ‘00 Escort: Nick Silverman ‘0l Escort: Jim Powell, VMI,V‘00 L
2 I A
I   ThePbz wishes
all of the 1999 _
Homecoming
B  nominees ,
‘ the best of luck!
Jill Kosch ‘00 Noelle Gamble ‘00 Sarah Ann Hardee ‘01 Anna Parris ‘00 Jessica Morton ‘00 Jeannie Hanna ‘00L .
Pika Pi Kappa Phi ~Sigma Chi Sigma Nu SigEp Student Bar Association ‘ S 0 N
Escort: Chris Zarek ‘99 Escort: Bennett Thompson ‘00 Escort: Whitney Knier ‘00 Escort: Robert Walker"0l Escort: Andy Thompson ‘00 Escort: Grant Waterkotte ‘01L '
6 6 ‘ ' 9 9 .
21 y 111 C l B 0 .
- - - their offices, to sports practices, to D- tion of having captured the essence The photos will be published in an
By EIl71E‘:I71Irj1R:S1\l/jlglllrgﬁanl hall dinner, to 3 a.m. paper-writing in of the model the best. early 2000 issue of the magazine, in cel-
the computer lab, to the custodians Each photographer will edit his own ebration ofboth the new millennium and .5
A view of students studying along cleaning on the late night shifts. The photographs and submit his best to Alumni Magazine’s 75th anniversary.
the Colonnade, sitting on the grass as goal of the photographers is to cap- the magazine for consideration. Ulti- If anyone knows of any activities
a gentle wind blows through — pic- ture a typical W&L day on ﬁlm. mately, the art director of Alumni which the photographers should cover,
ture perfect? That is what six photog- “It’s almost like a game or a con- Magazine will make the decision as to contact Deborah Marquardt at 463-8956 )‘
raphers will decide as they wander the test,” explained Deborah Marquardt, which pictures ﬁnally get published. or Louise Uffelman at463-8978.
Washington and Lee University cam- University Editor/Publications Man- '
pus this Wednesday and Thursday. ager. The contest will begin on noon,
As part of a project sponsored by Wednesday, Oct. 6, and end on noon
W&L Alumni Magazine, six W&L of Thursday, Oct. 7. Dsgﬁes I
alumni photographers will shoot “Anything then is OK, but it can’t Hguﬁys
around 120 rolls of ﬁlm in an attempt exceed that 24 hours,” Marquardt said. H es
to capture “A Day in the Life of W&L” The goal of the contest is to have olrzecrviming
later this week. all these professionals take the ulti- tzruiews ‘
The photographers are all profes- mate photo shoot of the school. ses
sional, as well as being W&L alumni. “Campus is the model [for the photo
The photographers participating in shoot],” Marquardtsaid. All six photog- 561 Lexington Antique Mall
L EX I N G T [I N , this contest include: Patrick Hinely ’73, raphers will be vying for the best pic- An Affordable Alternative
 Bard Wrisley ’73, Neil Johnson ’76, tures of that model, for the recogni- 5.
(it.//(’r' . /)7 1111.3"///‘/y (III. ICS MBSOH ’84, Taylor Crothers ’93 —
FRESH EACH MORNING and Hm°n,Hi"eS ’97' °‘ 4 S _ 9 ‘ ,   9  N _. I  g 7  _ _
ESPRESSO - CAPPUCCINO - FRESH ROASTED COFFEES - FINE TEAS The)’W111g0aT0und¢3mP11S for 24   ' . T’  -3 _ I   . " , R ‘  A
9WEST WASHINGTON sTREET- LEXINGTON -464-6586 hours, shooting pictures of anything  A ‘H e, .    I ' I  ‘
and everything at W&L: from students  V _ 9 . 9  , ’ V V 9' _ TlflUf'$d0Yi October:  _ ‘i
hanging out at the Co-op, to faculty in A " ~ ’ V 7:00-.p.m. Drama. “Maximilian, Saint of
 , -. “ L . Auschwitz.” Lenfest Center.
’- ,,,‘,:Ef‘7iday,i”C5é;tober 8 ii. Homecoming A
« "8200 a.in., Tennis (M). Southeast Regional.
. ' , G  Courts.
f 4:30 pm. Soccer (M). W&L vs. Emory&
. . ’ Henry. Liberty Hall Field. ‘
10:00 p.m. SAB Concert: The Connells. Student
-1  Activities Pavilion
Film Society. “Life is Beautiful”
} L (Italy, 1998), directed by Robert
‘ V 9 "R Benigni.TroubadourCinema. D
p L V A .  ” P , * LateNight T DIparty.Fiji.
Monday, October 4' f . t : « i 1 " ‘ A  . » I ,
'9:0’0a.m.' A 'i‘ennis(M).Soutl1eastRegional. :9 'iH°meC°mm9
‘ lvarsitycom-ts_ .. . _ ’ a 10:00 a.m. ’ = _AnnualMemorial Sen/ice,inremem~ P
v i ‘ branceofDr. Charles W. Turner, W&L
~ , . history professor.LeeChapel.
_TU¢$d°Y:   - 4 S:  {  I0:30a.in. W&L vs.Bridgewater.
’ 4=°°_P-m- Tennis (W) W&L V8;  »  .‘ av  ; 7Libe1ty Hall.Field. ‘
 College. Varsity Courts. i '1:30p;m. 2 ‘ Football. W&L vs. Davidson. Wil- I
- 6:30. .9 Vll .W&Li.S  . B 9.  ~
“We’re more than just hot dogs; we also serve fresh bagels, , Pm   V; “i¥"a“.Cem .vs w   .   §°.“?T“?“‘;, . . 
_ _ _ _ ” ‘ am“; , 3 _ ~ :_  ~ 4:00 pm. _ ‘Kg-rising band, withpig race. F131.
‘International Wrapps’ and high protein smoothie. ‘W   _j1‘1lf1_:¥}4,?1s1cS§rxe_s=Ir!¥¢*f“‘¥.‘¥f?.¥? ;1’.°?i J i9:30p.m. B :...;“st.:;«yix:?.A;iye,’= Fiji.
‘ . f°nf1“18Af‘S5¢'_1°$‘1999'299°5?R9n“i ..  ’*“'I‘heErnies,” Chi Psi. I
V Majuindar, Indian ﬂute. Leechapel. «ThephaSe,ssPika_
3 W. Nelson St. Mon. - Thurs. 8:00a.m. - 7:00p.m. Wednesda October 6- ~ “CoconutGrQ0Ve.” SigEp.
. . . . L M y, V . g e . ~ _  v  _ e  9 , g V .“Speakeasy,”SigmaNu.
Lexington, VA 24450 Fri. - 8.00a.m. — 9.00p.m. wom_ _ vSom4r(M)‘W&L Ys.Rom¢k§.g    Lat¢Nigh:t.: A gDn,mty;_Beta_ ‘
540-464-1501 Sat. - l1:00a.m. - 9:00p.m. C011eg¢lLib°ItyH3l3Fi°1d—’? ’ 9 B‘ 5 9 l ‘S ’j [-fD1Pa1’¢Y-,ChiPS,i-

 

 

 

 

OCTOBER 4, 1999

By Sarah Schmidt

STA FF WRITER

Washington and Lee volleyball had another successful
week, racking up two ODAC victories. Coming off the heels
of their tournament championship at Maryville, TN, the Gen-
erals came home to knock off Randolph Macon Women’s
College in three games on Tuesday (15-1 1, 15-1, 16-14).

Senior outside hitter Nancy Reinhart led the Gener-
als with 11 kills and seven digs. Two sophomores came
up big as Lindsey Ruckert knocked down nine kills and
Lee Charbonet totaled six kills and eight digs. Charbonet
was named last week’s ODAC Player of the Week for
her performance in the Maryville tournament. Junior

   RT s

Volleyball continues dominance in ODAC, remains undefeated .

Katherine Kline amassed 15 assists, leading the Gener-
als’ setters.

Several General reserves got to see signiﬁcant court
time in the three game match. The shuffled lineup may
have contributed to some confusion on the court.

“We have to get used to playing with each other,”
Reinhart said, noting that “everyone got to contribute.”

The Generals have never dropped a match to RMWC, ’

holding a 15-0 all-time series advantage over the Wildcats,
and only once has RMWC taken W&L to a fourth game.
The Generals were in control going into the third game,
but after jumping out to an early lead, the team stalled out with
10 points and actually fell behind. RMWC has yet to win an
ODAC match, and ﬁnally succumbed to the Generals 16-14.

The Generals know that as the top seed in the ODAC
everyone is gunning for them. “We play our opponents’
best,” head coach Terri Dadio Campbell noted. “The
struggle is to keep playing our best against lesser oppo-
nents. We can’t drop our level ofplay.”

On Thursday the Generals headed back toward Ten-
nessee, this time to take on ODAC opponent Emory and
Henry. Both teams came into the match undefeated in
conference play. W&L won the match (17-15, 9-15, 15-3,
15-3), dropping only one game to E&H. Reinhart and
Ruckert dominated net play for the Generals with 18 kills
apiece. Reinhart also contributed 10 digs, while Ruckert
hammered home ﬁve solo blocks and three block assists.
Junior defensive specialist Tori Hays countered the

PAGE 5 '

Wasps’ attack with 24 digs as fellow junior Kline added '

29 set assists.

3
r
l-
r
I

Thursday’s defeat of E&H leaves W&L as the only 
remaining undefeated team in the ODAC, with a 5-0 record '.

in the conference and an 1 1-2 showing outside of the ODAC.
The win at home on Tuesday against conference foe
RMWC extends the Generals’ home win streak over ODAC

opponents to 17 in a row. 
The last time W&L lost to an ODAC team at home was toiiw
Bridgewater at the beginning of the 1994 season. Over the 3’?-

‘(-

s_y_‘-.., . .  -

.2‘

past four seasons the Generals have only dropped three out’

of 44 games in the Warner Center. The Generals, defending
ODAC champions will try to keep that streak alive Tuesday
when they face Sweet Briar at home at 6:30 p.m.

Women’s soccer survives Guilford 3-2
9

By Frances Groberg

SPORTS EDITOR

It was too close for comfort. The Washington and Lee
women’s soccer team managed to pull out avictory, 3-2, against
ODAC opponent Guilford withjust 3 :52 leﬁ in the game.

Junior captain Shana Levine opened up scoring at the
16:04 in the match, redirecting a free kick from junior
midﬁelder Liz Olson. The Quakers answered at 47: 1 7, but
sophomore Noelle Beckman put the Generals ahead again
with her second goal of the season.

Guilford pulled even again at 2-2 until junior Lindsey
Williams knocked her game—winner home. The Generals
outshot Guilford 32-10 for the game.

“We didn’t play badly, but we couldn’t finish,” head coach
Jan Hathom said. “I never thought that we wouldn’t win, and
sometimes we do better with our backs up against the wall.”

Sweet Briar posed no threat to W&L on Thursday, and
the Generals cruised to an 8-1 victory on the day.

The team remains undefeated in the ODAC, no small
feat given the injuries various players have suffered. Se-
nior captain Deirdre Coyle has been out since the ﬁrst
game with a broken tibia, and senior captain Ginny Jemigan
is recovering from knee surgery and a broken femur. Many
other players have sustained injuries as well.

“We found out this wekend that we can pull out wins,
even if they don’t come from the names and faces we thought
they would. Others are stepping up nicely,” said Hawthorn.

Olson has put up particularly impressive numbers in
light of the recent injuries. With four goals and an assist,
she has become a true presence on the ﬁeld.

“I still think we can win [the ODAC], but the kids have
to believe that,” Hathom said.

The Generals face ODAC rival Roanoke away on
Wednesday starting at 4 p.m.

3:08 BRILL

CROSS COUNTRY: The Washington and Lee cross
country squads competed in the Frostburg State In-
vitational on Saturday aftemoon. Both the men's and
women's teams finished in 13tl1 place out of 23 teams.

For the women's squad, freshman Brooke Duncan
led the way with a 28th place ﬁnish in a time of 20: 1 2.
Junior Kathleen Moroney was second for the Gener-
als in 74th place with a time of21 :14. The Generals
were able to place their ﬁrst six runners within the top
100 runners in the race.

On the men's side, the Generals were paced by
sophomore Ken J ackman in 34th place with a time of
27:31 and sophomore Rob Naftel in 35th place just
one second later.

GOLF: The Washington and Lee Golf squad fin-
ished second overall in the W&L Fall Golf Classic
held at the Lexington Golf and Country Club. The
Generals‘ white team shot a 316-305--621 and ﬁnished
ﬁve strokes behind team champion, Roanoke. The
W&L Blue squad placed sixth overall with a 3 14-326-
-640. Individually, W&L's T.J. Wagner was the medal-
ist, shooting a 74-72--146.

WoMEN’s TENNIS: The Washington and Lee
women's tennis team claimed both the singles and
doubles championships at the ITA Southeast Re-
gional Tournament this past weekend in
Fredericksburg, Va.

In the singles competition, W&L senior Brook
Hartzell claimed the title with a 6-2, 6-7,6-1 win over
Mary Washington's Lea Schon. W&L thoroughly
dominated the competition, earning seven of the eight
quarterfinal positions. Schon was the only non-W&L
player to survive the second round. Hartzell earned
her position in the championship with a 6-2, 6-0 win
over teammate Laura Bruno. Schon outlasted W&L
sophomore Melissa Hatley by a score of 7-5, 6-4 in
the other semifinal.

Washington and Lee was equally impressive in
the doubles competition. Haitzell and Hatley, the No.
1 seeded team, triumphed over Bruno and sopho-
more Sallie Gray Strang by a score of 7-5, 6-3 to ad-
vance to the finals. Hartzell and Hatley will face team-
mates Erin Eggers and Erika Proko on Tuesday in the
championship. Eggers and Proko disposed of the No.
2 seeded team composed of Schon and Sarah Chase
in their semiﬁnal match by a score of 7-6, 7-5.

Mi:N’s TENNIS: The Washington and Lee men's
tennis team has had several players advance after the
opening round of the ITA Southeast Regional held at
W&L. In singles, sophomore Rhys James has ad-
vanced to the third round as has junior Kelly Radford.
In doubles, James and Radford teamed up to advance
to the third round, as well as the duo of freshman
Chase Bice and sophomore Bobby Reitinger.

WALKING WOUNDED: injuries have sidelined many players, yet they stay undefeated in the ODAC.

Foﬂed Again

Generals fall to RMC 30-23
By Mike Weil

STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee Generals looked to carry their
momentum from their ﬁrst victory last weekend into
Saturday’s contest with Randolph-Macon. Unfortunately
for the Generals, they ran into an offensive juggernaut
that held on to a seesaw battle by a score of 30-23.

The game’s ﬁrst points came on the Generals’ opening
possession in which senior wide receiver J.T. Malatesta
capped the drive with a 15 yard touchdown reception
from quarterback Christian Batcheller. The Yellow Jackets
retaliated, however, with a string of 16 consecutive points
to lead by nine. The Generals were able to regain the mo-
mentum with 32 seconds left in the half when Batcheller
again hit Malatesta in the endzone, this time from ﬁve
yards out. A

W&L freshman tight-end Davis White opened up the
scoring in the second half, when he took a pass from
Batcheller and scampered 41 yards to the endzone to re-
gain the lead for the Generals 20-16. A key interception in
the endzone ended a potential game-breaking drive for
W&L. Turnovers then proceeded to plague the Generals
for the remainder of the game as a fumble on their next
possession led to a Yellow Jacket touchdown and a 23-20
deﬁcit that W&L would never overcome.

Following the touchdown a W&L drive was again halted
by a costly interception, leading to seven more points for
the Yellow Jackets. The Generals added a late ﬁeld goal to
pull within 30-23, but were unable to stop the Yellow Jack-
ets from running out the clock to end the game. W&L turned
the ball over three straight possessions leading to all 14
points that Randolph-Macon scored in the second half.

“I thought for the first time we played overall good foot-
ball for four straight quarters” said White. “We played solid,
but made mistakes in key situations which killed us.”

Coach Miriello said, “It was a good effort, but it was
faltered by critical penalties, turnovers, and poor red-zone
efficiency.”

The game was highlighted by record-breaking perfor-
mances by both quarterback Brian Partlow of Randolph
Macon, and Batcheller for the Generals. Partlow smashed
the ODAC record for passing yards with 405, and
Batcheller broke his personal record for passing yards
with 322. Batcheller’s three touchdown passes on the day
gave him 33 for his career, tying the school record.

One important ﬁgure that was missing for W&L was
star tailback, junior Marc Watson. Watson is sidelined for
three weeks with mononucleosis, thus having to sit out
this weekend’s homecoming showdown with Davidson.

Davidson, according to Coach Miriello, plays “smash your
face football”, which will be a big adjustment from Randolph-
Macon’s aerial attack. Miriello promises, however, that the
“guys will recover for a good homecoming effort.” Hopefully
that effort will translate into a win this Saturday.

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

Stroebel scores

Men’s Soccer 1-1 for week
By Robert Turner

STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s soccer team had an up A,
and down week, gaining their first ODAC victory Thurs- if
day against Hampden Sydney before falling to Christo— 

pher Newport University Saturday.

The Generals (2-5) started the week offwell, defeating
perennial ODAC power Hampden Sydney 2-] at Liberty
ﬁeld. W&L struck early on a goal by senior Jamie Parker in
only the fourth minute ofthe game. but llampden Sydney

quickly knotted the score only minutes later. W&L‘s re- ,-

 

cent streak of bad luck in close games ended though as 

sophomore John Stroebel ﬁnally ﬁnished a shot offa ﬂick

from sophomore Andrew Grimes. and the Generals came

away with the much needed conference victory.
Saturday the team traveled to Christopher Newport

«, . _ , .
.,r~.- . »,.~,_v- 
«.-.‘-.’tr. 3... . .

University looking for another upset with conﬁdence still 
high following the Hampden Sydney victory. The Gener- ‘'
als started well but couldn’t manage to score on early -;;-

chances. The defense held though, and the half ended "

tied 0-0 as both teams had seven unsuccessful shots.

The Captains netted two goals in the ﬁrst seven min-
utes of the second half. W&L had only one more shot in
the half, which almost seemed like a different game and the
match ended in a 2-0 loss for the Generals.

While W&L returned home without what would have
been a huge victory, the team acknowledged their improved
play. “We played great the ﬁrst half, with lots ofintensity
and really matched their skill,” Stroebel said. “But then we

fell apart in the second half and they took advantage. They . 
were deﬁnitely one ofthe best teams we have played,” he _; 

added. The Generals look for another ODAC victory ‘

Wednesday against Roanoke at Liberty ﬁeld at 4:00 p.m.

THE BEST

MILLIONS OF

MINDSIN

AMERICA HAVE ALREADY
CHOSEN THE BEST
RETIREMENT SYSTEM:

TIAA-CREF.

W hen it comes to planning a
comfortable future, America’s
best and brightest turn to the expert:
TIAA-CREE With over $250 billion in
assets under management, were the
world’s largest retirement system, the
nations leader in customer satisfaction,*
and the overwhelming choice of people
in education, research, and related ﬁelds.

Expertise You Can
Count On

For over 80 years, TIAA-CREF has intro-
duced intelligent solutions to America’s
long-term planning needs. We pioneered the
portable pension, invented the variable
annuity, and popularized the very concept
of stock investing for retirement. In fact, we

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.“

are subject to certain risks Including the possible loss of principal.

manage the largest stock account in the
world (based on assets under management).
Today, TIAA-CREF can help you

achieve even more of your ﬁnancial goals.
With TIAA—CREF you'll find the
ﬂexibility and choice you need, backed by
a proven history of performance,
remarkably low expenses, and peerless

commitment to personal service.

Find Out for Yourself

To learn more about the world's premier
retirement organization, talk to one of our
retirement planning experts, or better still,
speak to one of your colleagues. Find out
why, when it comes to planning for tomor-
row, great minds think alike.

To ﬁnd out more — give us
a call or visit our website

1 800 842-2776

wwW.tiaa—cref.org

"‘DAl.BAR. lnc.. I.9.97De/ined Cantributlan Excellent: Ratings. Past performance is no guarantee of future results. TIAA-CREF Individual and institutional
Services. Inc. distributes CREF certiﬁcates and interests in the TIAA Real Estate Account. Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the
TlAA~CREF Mutual Funds. For more complete information, including charges and expenses, please call for prospectuses. Read them carefully before
you invest or send money. To request prospectuses. call I 800 842-2733, ext. 5509. Investments in securities such as mutual funds and variable annuities

8/99

 

..(.

PAGE 6

Z
i...
as
2-29
§<=‘=€
an
3.52
31
eggs
Zwbﬂ

LAST WORD  

 

OCTOBER 4, 1999

The ﬁna

By Kevin McManemin

BLEA TING AND BABBLING

<Scene.' the tastefully appointed
inner chambers of the Vatican. The
Pope sits on a chair as a Cardinal
paces back and forth, pleading with
the Pontiff >

Pope: [will not change the doctrine
of the Church to make it more popular!
God’s word is not a popularity con-
test!

Cardinal: Your Holiness, please.
Our situation is desperate. The num-
bers of Catholic clergy are declining
worldwide. The youth are turning to
atheism, Satanism, or worse ~
Presbyterianism! And that damn ls-
lam thing is showing no sign ofgoing
away. We’re'not asking you to change
God’s word. . .just put a new spin on
it.

Pope: What?

Cardinal: Look, l’m not a PR per-
son. That’s why we’ve ﬂown in two
people to talk to you. Your Holiness,
let me present Arthur James, Wash-
ington, D.C. image consultant and Ken
Goldstein, PR director of Big Budget
studios, Hollywood.

<Cardinal exits to fetch the spin
doctors. A moment later, the doors
burst open and two men with slicked
back hair, Armani suits, sunglasses,
and shoes that cost more than most
small cars saunter in. >

Ken: John Paul, baby! Glad to meet
you.

Arthur: lt’s apleasure. babe. Well,
let’s get down to business. Issue one:
increasing the Church’s sagging profit
margins.

Ken: Two words, babe: product
placement.

Pope: What?

Arthur: Millions ofpeople attend
Catholic churches around the globe.

 
  
 
   

   

 
  

When you visit a country, pictures of
the popemobile appear on every news-
paper and TV station. You’re just wast-
ing that ad space! Companies would
pay big bucks for a banner on the
popemobile or a billboard on the altar.

Pope: That’s unconscionable.

Arthur: You could get Pepsi and
Coke into a big bidding war if you’d
agree to change the communion wine
to a soft drink.

Pope: Absolutely not!

Ken: Alright, alright, just a sugges-
tion. Next issue: the Bible. No one reads
anymore, baby.

Pope: Please don’t address me as
“baby.” “Your Holiness” will be ﬁne.

Ken: (aside) lt’s like I’m working
for Spielberg again.

Arthur: Look, there’s a lot of
highly marketable stuffin the Bible —
plenty of sex, lots of violence. Great
stuff. Just super. But rather than a
book, we’d like to make it into a weekly
television series.

Ken: And get this —- Leo Dicaprio
has expressed interest in playing
Jesus! Although, rather than being the
immaculate Son of God we’d like to
rewrite the part as just a regular guy,
that would make the character easier
for viewers in our key demographic to
relate to.

Pope: ls this some sort of sick joke?

Arthur: We never joke about huge
marketing potential! Just imagine —
Apostle action ﬁgures, “make your
own miracle” magic kits. . .

Ken: The movie, the video game,
the Happy Meal tie-ins with
McDonalds, Taco Bell, Pizza Hut. . .
Why, someday the Catholic Church
might even be bigger than Disney!

Pope: The Catholic Church is not
interested in perverting the laws of
God to pander to what’s “popular.”

Arthur: It’s not about pandering,
it’s about putting a hip new spin on’
something very old.

Ken: I mean, it’s like Puff Daddy

Good ’l'iW\€,S berween
areal’ +as+e berweem classes.

remaking the Po1ice’s “Every Breath
you Take.”

Arthur: Good song.

Ken: Great song.

Pope: I hardly think that’s. . . look, I
thank you gentlemen for coming, but
I’m afraid this won’t work out. Vatican
City and Hollywood were never meant
to meet.

Arthur: Alright, your loss. We’ve
just got one more suggestion, ifyou’d
like to stop the decline of young people
signing up for the priesthood.

Pope: What?

Arthur: This whole celibacy thing
has got to go. Today’s sex-crazed
youth aren’t going to sign up for the
priesthood if celibacy is ajob require-
ment.

Ken: Look at the numbers. 75 per-

cent of boys and 50 percent of girls ..

have had sex by age 19. 20 percent
have had 6 or more sex partners. 5 per-
cent were actually having sex while
they took this survey. _And by the way,
homosexuality is more popular than
Catholicism in most ofCalifornia.

Pope: Get out ofthe Vatican! lfwe
let the church be run by public opin-
ion, we’ll all end up in Hell!

Ken: That’s another thing we
wanted to bring up.

Pope: What?

Ken: Hell. It’s kind of hard for
people to subscribe to your religion
knowing that if they screw up, they
spend an eternity getting tortured.

Arthur: Ouch!

Ken: Big ouch.

Arthur: We think you should in-
stitute a more believer-friendly after-
life policy. I mean this Heaven thing -
great concept, super idea. Couldn’t ev-
eryone get into heaven?

Pope: I don’t make God’s laws.

Ken: We know, we know. Wejust
want you to put a different spin on
them.

Pope: GET OUT!

Ken: Fine, ﬁne. We’ve got a meet-

Friertéls ,

ing with the Dalai Llama to get to any-
way.

Pope: Wait a minute, what did you
say?

Arthur: The Dalai Llama. He’s very
interested in appealing to the youth
demographic. Buddhism is through the
roof right now after Rage Against the
Machine and the Beastie Boys rocked
out at those Tibetan Freedom Con-
certs.

Pope: (under his breath) That damn
Llama. Hold on, you guys. Perhaps the
Catholic Church could use a fresh new
image. We’re not beat that easily.

*>l<*>l<**>l<**>l<*=l<****>l<

VJ: Hey waddup, you watchin’
MTV’s Spring Break, yeah yeah yeah.
We gots some mad fresh guests chill-
ing wid us on the beach today —— Den-

nis Rodman and da Pope. Waddup,
guys?

<Camera pans to two men, one
with green hair with a curse word
shaved in it, a nose ring, three ear-
rings, a bra and nothing else. Dennis
Rodman is wearing his Bulls jersey. >

Pope: Yo yo, ljust be chillin’ like
Bob Dylan, maxin’ and relaxin’ like
Michael Jackson, you know what I’m
saying? Excuse me while I drink a Coke.
Yes, Coca Cola —the official soft drink
ofthe Catholic Church. Drink a Coke,
go to Heaven! Drink a Pepsi, BURN
IN HELL! (gives thumbs up while
drinking)

< The scene fades to black with the
faint sound of thunder and lightning
rolling in from the distance. . .>

lvictory of the spin doctors

Complaint letter count

<O>

If this week's column
doesn't piss some people
off, I'll be insulted.

Insulted this week:

—-—Spin doctors, no, not
that crappy music group that
you probably listened to in
high school.

—Some would say the
Pope, but Ithink I made his
character quite loveable in
an endearing sort of way.

——Spielberg

 

K
V
'7

o
\

"\

/C4PP/l ALPHA T HE TA 00/VGRA T I/Z/-l TES
T //E/R HOMECOM//VG NOMINEES.-

Deirdre Cogle
Sarah Ann Hardee

Noelle Gamble

GOOD LUCK, GIRLS!!!’

 

Buy a Coca-C_ola® class_ig from any specially marked on-campus vending
machine and you could win a commemorative Coca-Co|a® classic/NFL T-Shirt*.

‘Specially marked packaging available in specially marked vending machines until 11/30/99 or while supplies last. No purchase necessary. Requests for free
game piece must be received by 12/28/99. See specially marked vending machines for details or call 1-800-785-2653.

©1999 The Coca-Cola Company. “Coca-Cola“ and the Red Disk Icon are registered trademarks of The Coca-Cola Company.

 
   
   

it

3

 

