   

V

‘V.
.':

, X

-’ 2.72.755

R55?-
\/.101
no.2’;
C /2,

  

.MMt}'9 13. ttrvsaunm LIBRARY
\.I\/A.’3H‘ll~.£(:’:’L’1'l‘w)  LEE UMVERSITY’
 >. M ':‘.v.-'..¢»§»3

U112 ﬂing-tum Iﬂlttii"

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsrrY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

.. y

4

VOLUME 102, No.22

White Book
review ﬁnished

Whitebook review committee
hands over ﬁndings to EC
By Max Smith

NEWS EDITOR

Recommending a few policy changes and 250 gram-
matical changes, the White Book Review Committee and
their comprehensive, 76-page report will go in front of the
Executive Committee tonight in an open meeting.

Drawing upon survey results from the student body
and faculty, the Committee's report proposes several
“changes to improve the layout, grammar, consistency, clar-
ity and substance of the White Book.” The White Book is
the ruling publication of the University Honor System.

“The White Book was written by a committee and it
reads like that,” Review Committee Chairman Rob Bailey
said, referring to the often confusing language of the book.

To adopt any proposal, it must be supported by two-
thirds of the EC at two separate meetings, said EC Presi-
dent Jeff Cook. Tonight the Review Committee willofﬁ-
cially present their report to the EC, who will ask questions
throughout.

Cook plans on visiting most campus groups, like Greeks
and MSA, to get their opinion on any changes. This meet-
ing will be followed on March 20 by a campus-wide forum
on changing the White Book.

“The EC will consider the Review Committee’s recom-
mendations carefully,” Cook said. He added that the EC
will especially concentrate on campus opinions of their
accountability in honor decisions. '

The Review Committee recommends the EC add a sec-
tion to deﬁne the Honor Advocate program, change the
makeup of the preliminary investigation team, not allow
the accused to be punished for disclosing information on
the violation or EC hearing, allow the accused's advocates
to contact EC witnesses before the hearing, and allow dis-
cussion of information about a Student Body Hearing out-

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

side the University community.

The last section of the report consists of a full, ideal

_version of the White Book if penned by the Review Com-

mittee.

photo by Emily Bamesl Photo Editor

TIIIs CEILING IsN’T TOO wELL DECORATED. Duke law student Evans Rice dips sophomore Elizabeth Alford at Friday

night’s 93rd‘ Annual Fancy Dress Ball. Many students took advantage of swing’ dance lessons earlier that week.

Going dry? Four W&L fraternities may ban alcohol

Rising insurance costs, declining image force nationals to can the spirits for all chapter housing

By Michael Crittenden

ASSOCIA TE EDITOR

Washington and Lee University
alumnus Matt May has returned to
Lexington for Alumni Weekend each
year since his graduation in 1997. Ar-
riving in town, he usually stops by one
of the local supermarkets in order to
buy a few cases of beer to take to his
fraternity house.

May, a graduate brother in Phi
Gamma Delta (Fiji), says he enjoys re-
turning to the fraternity and spending
time with the undergraduate members
over a few beers.

“Alumni like to come back to the

house and relive our college days.”
May said. “It Is a tradition of sorts to

return to your house, share some
drinks and stories, and to have a fun
time.”

Tradition or not, the national poli-
cies Of four Washington and Lee fra-
ternities may soon prevent students
and alumni alike from ever drinking in

their fraternity houses again. Set to go
into effect July 1,2000, national poli-
cies will prohibit the use or posses-
sion of alcohol in the fraternity houses
of Phi Delta Theta (Phi Delt), Sigma
Nu, Phi Kappa Sigma (Phi Kap) and
Fiji.

According to representatives from
the four national fraternities the re-
sponse nationwide has been positive.
In Lexington, however, both students
and administration have attacked the
policies. While Fiji and Sigma Nu ap-
pear to be able to reach a compromise,
Phi Kap and Phi Delt are playing a
high—stakes game of chicken, waiting
for their national fraternity to move

ﬁrst. If they don’t, both fraternities
have said they might de-affiliate with

their national fraternity. Fraternity
members have complained that the
new policies would destroy the cam-
pus social life, and prevent them from
successfully recruiting new members.
The administration has also weighed
in on the issue, in support of the stu-

dents.

“I don’t believe that prohibition of
alcohol in the fraternity houses is the
best way to educate students about
alcohol problem,” Dean of Students
David Howison said. “I really don’t
believe this will work on our campus,
because of the nature of the students
here.”

While Howison made clear that the
University policy does not support
underage drinking by students, he
noted that drinking is not a foreign
concept to Washington and Lee stu-
dents. The percentage of students at
Washington and Lee who drink, be-
tween 80-85 percent, is much higher

than the national average. Howison
also said that the responsible use of

alcohol should be the focus of the is-
sue.

“I definitely believe that there is a
place for the social use of alcohol in
fraternity houses,” Howison said. “It
is the abuse of alcohol we must curb,
not the use, and the University is tak-

LET THE GOOD TIMES ROLL. The Emma Gibbs Band serenades the Saturd

photo by David Hanson/Assistant Photo Editor
ay afternoon crowd at Phi Psi.

ing those steps.”

Senior Phi Delt member Christopher
Ball agrees with Howison, saying that
the answer to alcohol problems will not
be found in the new policies.

“Drinking is a social problem that
you can’t change with one fell
swoop,” Ball said. “That doesn’t deal
with the reality of the situation.”

But for the national representatives
of the four houses the reality is that
they have chosen a way to deal with
what they see as a problem of national
pro ortions.

' " This is a national issue that is not
going to go away anytime soon,” said
Fiji’s Executive Director, Bob Baney.
“I know of at least 10 other fraternities
that have some type of alcohol—free
housing policy in lace, and at least 40
that have an alcohol-free policy as a
requirement for the colonization or dis-
cipline of chapters.”

The current movement toward al-
cohol-free housing comes as a result
of the alcohol-related deaths of frater-

nity members across the country in
recent years. In 1997 the deaths of two
fraternity pledges, one at Fiji at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technol-
ogy, and one at Sigma Alpha Epsilon
(SAE) at Louisiana State University,
resulted in headlines nationwide. Both
Benjamin Wynne and Scott Krueger
died of alcohol poisoning that resulted
from binge drinking, defined as hav-
ing more than ﬁve drinks at one sit-
ting.

Washington and Lee has seen its

own alcohol-related-tragedies in re-

cent years. In 1996 student David Th-
ompson died in a drunken driving ac-
cident, and in the spring of 1997 fresh-
man Jack Bowden fell out of his third-
floor dormitory window while intoxi-
cated.

According to Baney, the alcohol-
free housing movement is a direct re-
action to the alcohol abuse on college
campuses and in the fraternity houses.»

SEE ‘GOING DRY?’ ON PAGE 2

MONDAY, MARCH 6, 2000

VMI grad
indicted
for arson

1998 barracks ﬁre
stem federal charge

By Katie Clark

STAFF WRITER

A barracks ﬁre set almost two years
ago has kindled legal problems for a
recent Virginia Military Institute gradu-
ate.

John Daniel Payne ofAshland, who
graduated last September, was in-
dicted by a federal grand jury on
charges of setting fire to a room in the
VMI barracks and obstruction of jus-
tice last week in Roanoke. An indict-
ment is a formal charge, not a finding
of guilt.

According to a U.S. Bureau of Al-
cohol, Tobacco, and Fireanns news
release, these charges arose from evi-
dence uncovered in an ATF, Virginia
State Police, and United States attor-
ney investigation.

Payne is accused of starting a fire
in a room recently vacated by three
expelled senior cadets. The fire broke
out around 3:30 a.m. on May 2, I998,
moments after a “drumming Out” cer-
emony was held for the dismissed se-
niors and for three expelled freshman.

ATF Agent Bart McEntire declined
to elaborate on the obstruction of jus-
tice charge since the indictment is
sealed. Federal charges were ﬁled be-
cause the barracks is a registered Na-
tional Historic Landmark.

The federal arson statute carries a
maximum 20-year penalty. VMI cannot
revoke Payne’s degree since he has
already graduated.

The investigation was delayed be-
cause the ﬁre occurred in May, VMI
spokesman Col. Michael Strickler said.

“The fire happened at the end of
the school year, and people went away
for the summer,” he said. “The state
police had to travel to interview
people.”

Strickler said a lack of student co-
operation also slowed the investiga-
tion.

“No one was saying anything,” he
said.

According to the ATF, the seniors
who had occupied the vandalized
room had been expelled for striking
three freshmen with belts during a haz-
ing ritual. The freshmen were dis-
missed for initially lying about this rat-
line incident to cadet investigators.

The seniors were serving as
“dykes,” or senior mentors, to the three
freshmen.

Strickler said Payne did not live on
the floor where the fire occurred.

Payne could not be reached for com-. .

ment.

The blaze was quickly extin-
guished, and no one was injured. The
damage was minimal.

March 6, 2000

OPINION:

W&LIEE:

SPORTS:

@112 ﬂing-tum iﬁlti

Phi and Trident bashing

Memories. . . FD 2000

Men’s lax downs national rival

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

PAGE 6

OUTTA MY wAY!:Junior Ellen Ritsch
blows by a startled opponent.

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

 

 

 

PAGE 2

Eh;

filing-tum iﬂlri

NEWS

MARCH 6, 2000

‘GOING DRY?’ from page 1

“One reason we are taking these steps is the health and
wellness of our fellow brothers. We are not proud of what
happened at M.I.T. and the University of Pennsylvania
(where an alumnus died from an alcohol-related fall last
year),” Baney said. “When situations like this arise we
can’t sit around and say it will be business as usual. This
is not about putting someone in a grave, it’s about protect-
ing our brotherhood.”

High proﬁle deaths like
those of Krueger and

alcohol in our fraternities, we are saying it’s okay to break
the law,” Baney said. “The law of the land is not something
to just be overlooked because you are in college, and it is
not something we can overlook.”

The representatives also said the policies are an at-
tempt to shift the alcohol-dominated focus that has plagued
fraternities back to the ideals of the fraternities.

“We wish, and hope, that fraternity membership is based

more on the ideals of the
fraternity, and less on

66

Wynne have led to fratemi-
ties being ranked in the top
10 of the most difﬁcult orga-
nizations to insure; ranked
higher than bars and equal
to nuclear waste facilities
when it comes to getting li-

chapter alive

Switching to another fraternity, like Delta
Kappa Epsilon, is a viable option to keep our

—- Phi Kap President Brian Carney

drinking,” Biggs said.
“There are plenty of drink-
ing clubs out there, but we
are a fraternity whose prin-
ciples are not based on a
ﬁfth of liquor.”

Baney agreed Fiji was

99

ability coverage. Large law-
suit settlements, such as the
$430,000-plus that SAE had to pay as a result of Wynne’s
death, have caused insurance companies to avoid the risk.

According to Phi Delt Executive Director Bob Briggs,
the problem in ﬁnding liability insurance is the major impe-
tus in the move toward alcohol-free housing.

“If someday fraternities can’t get liability insurance, then
the reality is that those houses will be closed,” Biggs said.
“Fratemities are a business. It’s a tough pill to swallow,
but it's the truth.”

Members of the four W&L fraternities are aware of the
business aspects of running a fraternity, and say they will
be unable to compete with the other fraternity “businesses”
on campus if they are forced to go dry.

Fraternities at W&L market themselves on the social
atmosphere they present, May said. “Whether it_ good
or bad, it’s the reality of the situation. By taking away
alcohol from a few houses, you handicap those houses
and they will wither on the vine.”

Biggs said that today only a limited number of insur-
ance companies will grant liability insurance to fratemi-
ties. When a company does agree to underwrite a frater-
nity, the cost is usually much greater than for other organi-
zations. In a recent National Interfratemity Conference
study, the average member paid $120 - $160 a year for liabil-
ity insurance, while the average sorority woman paid $12 -
$25. According to Baney, that’s because all of the national
sororities have alcohol-free housing.

-“If we set ourselves up for risk [by having alcohol in
the fraternity house], we are going to pay for it,” Baney
said. “We are also lighting a time bomb that will eventually
explode and we will suffer from it.”

Thought Fiji did not face trial for the death of Scott
Krueger, the fear of that possibility, and the impending
cost of a large lawsuit like at the University of Texas, fuel
the move toward alcohol-free housing.

“If we have a situation where we have to make a large
pay—out because a student dies of alcohol poisoning in
one of our houses, or because of a Phi Gam party, there will
be no Phi Gamma Delta,” Baney said. “We will no longer
exist. A prudent, rational organization must take these steps
in order to stay in business.”

Members of the W&L community say, however, they
have been taking these steps for the last 10 years with
positive results. In 1989 the school started a fraternity re-
naissance program aimed at improving the failing Greek
system. Houses were half-destroyed, and the dereliction
of fraternity members was appalling, according to one
Board of Trustees member.

“The Alumni Board was so disgusted with the appear-
ance and the behavior of [the] members that it suggested
to the Board of Trustees that they ‘clean them up or shut
them down’,” said trustee J. Thomas Touchton ’6 1.

Starting with rebuilding the fraternity houses, which
included a “party room” in the basement of each fraternity,
the system has been built back to one of the strongest
Greek systems in the country. More than 80 percent of
male students participate in one of the school's 15 fratemi-
ties.

“Since the fraternity renaissance was started, the sys-
tem is better in nearly ever respect,” Howison said. “We
have seen consistent academic improvement and a reduc-
tion in the number of students arrested for alcohol-related
crimes. It has been quite successful in increasing the aware-
ness of students at W&L.”

In addition to steps by the administration to educate
students about alcohol use, student groups have also been
proactive in promoting awareness. Live Drive is a student-
run organization that organizes volunteers to act as sober
drivers on Friday and Saturday nights during the school
year. Another group, LIFE (Lifestyle Information For Ev-
eryone) acts as a resource for health information, and pre-
sents skits about alcohol use to incoming freshmen during
orientation week.

Some studentshave also raised concerns that the na-
tional fraternities appear to be sacriﬁcing their local chap-
ters to protect themselves from lawsuits.

“It’s frustrating because they’re covering their asses
and leaving us out in the cold, abandoning us,” Ball said.
“They are saying, ‘be in our fraternity, but don’t expect us
to help you in any way if something is to happen.’ We are
still liable if there’s an accident, but they aren’t.”

While the concerns of securing liability insurance and
avoiding lawsuits appears to be the main concern of the
national fraternities, all have also said that is not the only
impetus for alcohol-free housing. They also cite the prob-
lems of underage drinking, a return to fraternity values and
improvement of chapter quality control. Phi Kap Executive
Vice President Bob Miller insists that liability is not his
concern at all.

“Liability is not the issue here, alcohol use and abuse,
and the people who are getting hurt, are,” Miller said. “We
have to curb underage drinking and deal with the problem
honestly and openly.”

The other national fraternity representatives agreed
with Miller, noting that the legal drinking age in every state
is 21. Because most college students are under 21, it is
only logical to ban alcohol, Baney said.

“We recognize that around 75 percent of college stu-
dents are under the legal drinking age of 2 1, and if we allow

built on a core group of val-
ues that does not include
drinking. He said understanding that fact is necessary for
those students who are against the alcohol-free initiative.

“We want people to join for the right reasons - an envi-
romnent of friendship, academic involvement and citizen-
ship,” Baney said. “That is what our founders built this
fraternity on, not on a keg party.”

Advocates of the alcohol-free housing movement cite
improvements in chapters that have adopted alcohol-free

housing. According to Biggs, the 94 of Phi Delt’s 140 chap-
ters that have adopted alcohol-free housing have seen an

amazing tum-around.

“The positives are there,” Biggs said. “In those houses
[that are alcohol-free] we have seen an increase in recruit-
ment of new members, improved pledgeship programs [and]
academics, and safer and cleaner chapter houses.”

“The increase in the recruitment of new members has
been a welcome result of the alcohol-free housing policy,”
said Biggs. Since the mid-’ 80s the number of new members
joining fraternities has been dropping sharply on many
college campuses. According to Baney, the adoption of
alcohol-free housing has made fraternities more attractive
to prospective members.

But such a move may not go over as well in Lexington.
Members of the four fraternities are concerned with losing
potential members if they are forced to go dry. On a cam-
pus where 75 percent of the incoming freshmen drink (com-
pared to the national average of 50 percent of incoming
freshmen); and the social life is centered on parties at fra-
ternities, being an alcohol-free house is a scary proposi-
tion.

. “Rush is going to be that much more difﬁcult, if not
impossible,” said Ball.

Unlike at most schools, Washington and Lee’s formal

rush period takes place during the school’s Winter Term,

instead of during the ﬁrst few weeks of fall term. Because
W&L has rush in its second semester, the ﬁrst semester is
used by fraternities to get to know potential members dur-
ing parties and other social events. Most of these events
occur at the fraternity houses and all include the use of
alcohol. According to Phi Kap’s Washington and Lee chap-
ter President Brian Carney, it is the nature of the school.

“Students at this school are going to drink. That is the
reality of the situation,” Carney said. “80-90 percent of
the students who come to this school want to join a fra-
ternity or sorority, and to drink. This school is built on
students who like to work hard and party hard.”

The honesty of that statement is overwhelmingly held
by most of the Washington and Lee community, who are
quite honest about drinking underage at fraternities. Most
say that lack of other social outlets and the safety of the
fraternity houses, makes fraternity parties the best op-
tion.

“Drinking at fraternities is natural because there isn’t
anything else to do,” said senior Dillon Whisler. “They
are safe because they are close to campus, and they al-
low a controlled environment for students to have fun
without getting out of hand.”

The parties at Washington and Lee are controlled by
the University through a number of measures. Fratemi-
ties must register all parties with the school, and must
also provide security, and obtain a noise permit from the
town of Lexington. Howison says the system could be
improved, but that the one in place does work.

“The alcohol policy in fraternities can be improved,
and will be in the future, but they have worked well in
reducing the risk,” said Howison.

The impending July 1, 2000 deadline for alcohol-free
housing has forced fraternity members at the Washing-
ton and Lee fraternities to consider their options. All four
have expressed a hope for a compromise between nation-
als and the local chapters, but many see it as unlikely.

“They are very hard-headed and not fun to talk to,”
said Carney. “We would love to work out a compromise
that would increase the level of safety but not prohibit
the responsible use of alcohol. Unfortunately, they don’t
want to compromise.”

Carney said the local Phi Kap chapter asked their na-
tional fraternity for an exemption from the policy, but were
ﬂatly refused. He said the options now available to the
fraternity are limited.

“Our ﬁrst goal is to work out an extension/deferral
policy with nationals, in order to give us more time to
make this transition,” Carney said. “Ifthat doesn't work,
then our second goal would be to switch our national
afﬁliation to another fraternity like Delta Kappa Epsilon
(DKE).”

An extension would defer the adoption of alcohol-
free housing for some period of time so the chapter could
make more preparations for the change. Carney said this
was not likely, and that the local Phi Kap chapter had
looked into changing national afﬁliations, and had spo-
ken to national representatives from DKE. He said that at
this point, switching afﬁliations looks like their best op-
tion.

“Switching to another fraternity, like DKE, is a viable
option to keep our chapter alive,” Carney said. “It is ob-
viously not what we want to do, but we do not want to
see our house die because ofthis (alcohol-free) policy.”

Miller expressed dismay at the attitude of the Wash-

ington and Lee Phi Kap chapter saying it would be “ri-
diculous” to give an extension to one chapter.

“Why should [the chapter at] Washington and Lee
tell us what our policies are going to be,” Miller said.
“That will not work. I can’t run my organization that
way.”

Under Washington and Lee University policy, Phi Kap
would be allowed to change fraternal afﬁliations, but only
to another national fraternity. University policy prohib-
its local fraternities from existing at W&L, but does allow
any national fraternity. Howison said he hopes the situ-
ation does not progress that far, however.

“I really hope that would not be the case, however,
University policy would allow them to reafﬁliate,” said
Howison. “I would hate for a chapter to have to take that
step.”

Phi Delt is in a similar position, but has said it will not -

change afﬁliations. Instead, the chapter has created a
presentation that they plan to present to nationals in or-
der to obtain the extension policy. Ball, the creator of the
presentation, said that it outlines the chapter’s case
against going dry.

“We plan on showing that the alcohol-free housing
policy would have negative consequences here at Wash-
ington and Lee,” Ball said. “The fraternity renaissance,
improvements to fraternities, the steps the University is
taking to improve awareness, the reduction in alcohol-

related arrests. and the overall nature of Washington and
Lee.”

Ball said members plan to make the presentation to
national representatives early this semester, but said the
chances of success are fairly low.

“This is a very tough position to defend, and an uphill
battle when dealing with nationals,” Ball said. “If we
aren’t granted some sort of extension, I have no idea
what we will do.”

The other two fraternities, Fiji and Sigma Nu, are in a
much different position from Phi Kap and Phi Delt. Of the
four fraternities, only F iji’s national alcohol-free policy al-
lows for a deferral period from the July 1, 2000 date. The
policy, which allows for a one-tirne, two-year deferral, is of-
fered to chapters who excel.

The policy requires a chapter to have a house grade point
average above that of the all-men’s grade point average,
and not to be the subject of any disciplinary actions by the
University. It also requires the chapter to submit their
pledgeship program to the national fraternity, and to be in
good ﬁnancial standing with the fraternity. According to
Lipsey, Washington and Lee’s Fiji chapter should be granted
the extension. 1

“We are very, very optimistic about receiving the exten-
sion,” said Lipsey. “The response from nationals has been
encouraging and we are anxiously awaiting their response.
We have met all the necessary criteria and we are sure this

 

President Elrod continues his fight

against cancer
President John Elrod is continuing to receive che-
motherapy treatments for lung cancer.
"He's doing well and meeting his professional obli-
gations," said University spokesman Brian Shaw.
Elrod recently returned from an alumni activity in
Tuscaloosa, Ala. and plans to travel to other activities
across the nation, Shaw said.
Elrod travels to Charlottesville for treatments every
week as part of his four month regimen. He's currently

a .battling a cancer formation in his lungs.

Shaw'said the University will keep everyone informed
of Elrod's condition.

W&L to induct 53 at Phi Beta

Kappa Convocation

Washington and Lee University's Phi Beta Kappa
chapter will induct 53 current and former undergradu-
ate students into its honor society on Tuesday, March
14. The ceremony takes place at 12:15 p.m. in Lee Chapel.

Of the new members, there are four from the Class of
1999, 29 from this year's senior class and 20 from the
junior class. Phi Beta Kappa is the nation's oldest and
most respected undergraduate honors organization and
W&L‘s chapter, Gamma of Virginia, was founded in 191 1.

Gail McMurray Gibson, the William R. KenanVJr. Pro-
fessor of English and Humanities at Davidson College,
will deliver the keynote address at the convocation.
Bynum's lecture is titled, "Forbidden Territories: Liter-
ary Scholarship and the Mission Impossible of Robert
Southwell."

Gibson has served on the Davidson faculty since
1983 and spent eight years on the faculty at Princeton
University before going to Davidson. She earned her
A.B. in English from Duke University in 1970, her M.A.
in medieval studies at Duke in 1972 and her Ph.D. in
English from the University ofVirginia in 1975.

Gibson is the author of The Theater of Devotion:
East Anglian Drama and Society in the Late Middle
Ages and is currently writing Childbed Mysteries, a
book about late-medieval childbirth as theater, ritual
and social performance.

New York Times correspondent to

speak on 2000 Election

R.W. Apple Jr., chief correspondent for The New York
Times, will speak at Washington and Lee University on
Wednesday, March 15 at 4:30 p.m. in Leybum Library's
Northen Auditorium. Apple's public lecture is titled,
"Politics and Pundits Forty Years On: The Campaign of
2000."

will work in our favor.”

Baney said that the extension policy was added to the
original alcohol-free policy, because the fraternity under-
stands the “size of the step they are taking.”

“We are treading new ground here and breaking some
social norms,” Baney said. “We see some chapters taking
some extra time to make the transition.”

Similarly, the Sigma Nu Chapter is also seeking an exten-

sion from their national fratemity in order to make the transi- 11

tion easier. According to President-elect Matt Jacobs, the
response has been positive from nationals in working to-
wards a compromise.

“I would say I am cautiously optimistic of attaining some
sort of extension before July 1,” said Jacobs. “We are work-
ing with our alurrmi representatives to outline our position,
and plan on presenting them in January to our national fra-
ternity. Hopefully there is a positive solution.”

Jacobs said that if an extension is not granted, then he is —,

unsure of what steps his chapter will take. He says they
don’t want to reafﬁliate, and they will not ignore a fraternity
policy, but don’t feel they can survive at Washington and
Lee with alcohol-free housing.

The solution to the impasse between the national frater- *1

nities and the Washington and Lee chapters is an issue that
is still being wrestled with by both sides. At a November
meeting held in Lexington, representatives from both camps

and the University met to discuss the standoff. National‘

fraternity representatives gave a presentation of the hen-
eﬁts of alcohol-free housing. Afterwards, representatives

from Washington and Lee presented their concerns. Though
no solutions were decided on, and there is no future meet-
ings plarmed, Baney said the meeting was a success.

“The meeting was a cordial exchange of information and
ideas’ a good initial dialogue between everyone,” said Baney.

A solution has still not been reached, however, and other
than Fiji, the other three fraternity chapters at Washington
and Lee still face an uncertain path ahead. Concerned with
their survival and ability to attract new members in a system
ﬂooded with alcohol, the chapters maintain that they can-
not adopt alcohol-free housing. On the other side of the

fence, the national fraternities, concerned with the risk of _

lawsuits and deaths, are calling for a return to the alcohol-
free ideals of the founders of their fraternities. To Phi Kap
President Gherry Pettit, alcohol isn’t part of the fraternity
experience.

“Ideally I look to the day when a lack of alcohol won’t be »

a problem, an event doesn3t have to be centered on the use
of alcohol,” said Pettit.

To Washington and Lee students, however, this is a for-
eign reality. Drinking and socializing at fraternities go hand-
in-hand as part of the college experience. Said May: “There
is a reason why ‘there is a‘Iways'a'\cr_owd of peoplegaround a

keg. Whether'it’s‘ gb6d’or'bad'is' ifotithe que'stion,'it’s'jiist

the way W&L is.”

Apple became chief correspondent for The Times in
1997 after serving 12 years as chief Washington corre-
spondent and four years as the Washington D.C. bu-
reau chief. He writes extensively on a wide range of
topics, including politics, foreign policy and economic
questions, as well as food, wine, travel and the arts.

Since joining The Times in 1963, he has written from
more than 100 countries, reported on elections in Spain,
Britain, Russia, France, Sweden, Finland and other coun-
tries, and a wide variety of other stories on‘ﬁve conti-
nents. He previously has served as The Times bureau
chief in Albany, Saigon, Lagos, Nairobi, London and
Moscow. He headed The Time's coverage of the Gulf
War in 1991.

At home, Apple has been involved in the coverage
of 17 national conventions and eight presidential elec-
tions. He was the newspaper's national political corre-
spondent from 1970 to 1976. Prior to joining the paper,
he covered the civil rights movement in the South for
NBC News. '

Apple graduated magna cum laude from Columbia
University in 1961 and he has also received honorary
degrees from Denison University, Knox College and
Gettysburg College. Apple's visit to W&L is sponsored
by the department ofjournalism and mass communica-
tions.

Pulitzer Prize winner to speak at
W&L Journalism Ethics Institute

Jack Nelson, chief Washington correspondent for
the Los Angeles Times since 1996 will be the keynote
speaker at the Washington and Lee University Joumal-
ism Ethics Institute on Friday, March 10. Nelson will
speak at 4:30 p.m. in Room 327 ofthe Williams School
of Commerce, Economics and Politics. His lecture is
titled, "Joumalism Ethics: Seeking Solutions as Well as
Problems."

Nelson won a Pulitzer Prize in 1960 while writing for
the Atlanta Constitution for a series of articles expos-
ing irregularities in the world's largest mental institu-
tion at Milledgeville, Ga. He also won a Drew Pearson
Award for Investigative Reporting in 1975.

Nelson joined the Los Angeles Times staff in 1965
as the Atlanta bureau chief. He was an investigative
reporter from 1970 to 1975 and served as' the Washing-
ton D.C. bureau chief from 1975 until accepting his
present appointment in 1996. He began his journalism
career as a reporter with the Biloxi (Miss.) Daily Herald
from 1947 to 1951 and then was a staff writer for the
Atlanta Constitution from 1952 to 1965.

Nelson is the author of Terror in the Night: The Klan's
Campaign Against the Jews, published in 1993 and Cap-
tive Voices-High School Journalism in America, pub-

lished in 1974. He is the co-author of four other books, ,

including Beyond Reagan-The Politics of Upheaval,
published in 1986. Nelson is a graduate of Georgia State
College and was a Nieman Fellow in politics, history
and public administration at Harvard University.

Nelson's visit is sponsored by the department of jour-
nalism and mass communications and the Knight Pro-
gram in Journalism Ethics.

._?f.  .z_..-..,.. -\——«. ._ ..—...

H.

 

MARCH 6, 2000

OP

‘Lillie iﬂing-tum ilﬂlit

INION

 

PAGE 3

Owning up to
our mistakes

In college journalism, as in anything else, some weeks
are just better than others.

On the last page of this paper, you’re used to seeing
some form of satire; be it witty, semi-witty or just down-
right moronic. Kevin McManemin, in the ﬁne tradition
of back-page editors, is loved, hated, but mostly be-
moaned for it. Not this week, folks.

We screwed up.

Not “we”, The Phi, but “we”, McManemin and my-
self.

Last week a mock issue of The Rockbridge Advocate
appeared on the backpage of The Phi. The content, en-
titled “Are Lexington’s schools teaching too much?”,
had its mo-

ments, but

generally ——-—-"""—'-'—. _
perpetuated EX€Cut1V€ Editor
the stereo- .

type of the _ Polly Dolg m
W&L stu-

dent looking

down his nose, past the silver spoon in his mouth, at
the local community he has chosen to inhabit for four
years. This in itself, while arrogant and hypocritical given
the source, is not an error. It is ignorance and snobbery,
and overwhelmingly common at W&L. But all people,
McManemin included, are entitled to their opinions, and
it is not my place to make sure that The Phi reflects my
personal opinions. It is, however, my responsibility to
make sure that we cause no undue harm.

The error occurred when McManemin downloaded

The Rockbridge Advocate 's banner from their website,
and used it without their permission. In effect, simply
took what was not his. I personally compounded the
error when I failed to recognize the banner as the actual
one used by The Advocate, took it for just another
graphic creation, and let it go to print. Ignorance, how-
ever, is no excuse; it’s quite simply pathetic.
_ The Phi has a strict policy regarding the use of mate-
rials from the intemet, and anything downloaded is al-
ways given the proper credit. My editors know this, and
act accordingly. When a question arises, they bring it
to my attention, and we always choose to err on the side
of caution. That this happened, and was allowed to hap-
pen by me, makes me sick.

Since I discovered the mistake on Tuesday, I have
taken those steps within my power to correct it.

AMcManemin no longer has a position with The Phi. I

have spoken with members of the administration, as well
as Doug Harwood, the editor of The Advocate.

I have accepted responsibility for our mistake, and
now I extend my sincere apologies to Doug Harwood.
In addition, I apologize to the W&L community for fail-
ing to enforce the values espoused by the Honor Sys-
tern.

One of the most frequent complaints I get about The
Phi is that it’s not The New York Times, and we should
lighten up a little. No one is more aware of our inexperi-
ence and lowly status as a student paper than myself,
but that doesn't make it ﬁne for us to put whatever four-
letter words in print because we use them in everyday
life, to ignore legitimate news stories because they in-
volve our friends, or to swipe banners from the intemet.
Every week we come in and try to ﬁnd common ground
between our dual roles as students and aspiring jour-
nalists. And every once in a while, we completely blow
it. This is one of those times.

Next week will be better, I just know it.

Tillie iﬂing-tum iﬁlii

Executive Editor Polly Doig
Associate Editor Michael Crittenden
News Editor Max Smith
Opinions Editor Stephanie Bianeo
W&Liﬁa Editor Ellana Marziani
Sports Editor Steele Cooper
Photo Editor Emily Barnes

Tiffany Friedel
Lisa Lin
David Hanson
Neal Willetts
Tara Friedel

Assistant Photo Editors

Layout Editors

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of

libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wIu.edu
http://wlu. edu/~pht'

Annual subsription rate: 530

////.///////////

r_r___

<>"<74f7o‘7{

\

l

 
 

‘Fancy Dress 2000: We all
need somebody to lean on

It seems like everyone has a story to tell aﬁer this week-
end, rather, after every Fancy Dress weekend. My fun ex-
perience is somewhat embarrassing. . . It all started Thurs-
day night. Good times were had by all: Sugar Hill Gang and
Run DMC had the student body jumping, getting home
from the Pavilion was uneventful, post-parties went on

skills. I made Friday a relatively early night to rest up my
ankle for Saturday. After being excused from working in
the Dining Hall for brunch because of my injury, I donned
my sunglasses and sandals and limped out to the Lodge
once again, this time to relax in the sun with the musical
entertainment of Puddleduck and the unparalleled enter-

tainment from the pledges. Pool

move my right leg?
Ypu can imagine my distress
upon having to call all of my profes-

uninterrupted. So how is it that I
W 

woke up Friday morning unable to

Tara Friedel ‘O2

noodles, ﬂoaties, beach balls, and
crutches were everywhere, as were
bottles of champagne and top-qual-

Evil Twin

sors, apologizing for missing class

due to a badly sprained ankle. You and I know they all

thought I was running around all night, drunk as a skunk,
' falling everywhere and unable to wake up for class. The
nurses in the Inﬁrmary laughed at me and made fun of me
despite my protests of “Au contraire!”

To clear my good name, I was NOT drunk so I would
have remembered pulling all the ligaments in my right ankle
and I WAS awake at 7:15 a.m. that Friday morning pre-
pared for all my classes.

Fortunately I have wonderful friends who generously
donated their time to me all day: taking me to get my ankle
wrapped and 600 mg Ibuprofen horse pills, making me
healthy snacks and fresh baked cookies to eat with my
pills, running errands for me, and basically pampering me
like crazy. It was a weird day, after all, considering NBC
was having technical difﬁculties, classes were canceled
everywhere, and my friend’s car wouldn’t start aﬁer com-
ing to pick up the math homework from me to hand in later
that afternoon. I was able to take a bath, which was nice,
because it’s incredible how hard it is to get ready for any
function on one foot, even though my room is a 10’ by 10’.

When 5 p.m. rolled around, though, I was ready to go.
Dress, hair, makeup, crutches, everything! Gretchen Tencza
was sweet enough to decorate my crutches with silver
stars ﬁt for a queen. So off Matt (my date) and I were to the
party bus the Chi Psi Lodge had rented to take us to this
amazing Japanese steak house in Roanoke (it was quite a
blessing to sit for an hour each way).

After a while I became quite accustomed to gimping
around, and thanks to quality time at the cocktail party
and some foot elevation I was ready to go to the Ball!
Amazingly enough I was able to put my crutches down
and drag Matt from room to room where we could enjoy
the bands, our friends’ company, and my creative dancing

“As a committee member, it was
hard work but lots of fun!”

—Amanda Kelley ‘02

‘‘I didn’t have a date, but who
needs one? I had a great time.’

ity Dominican cigars. The atmo-

sphere worked wonders for my
ankle and I officially gained the nickname “Gimp.” We re-
laxed for a while afterward, eating dinner at Salemo’s and
watching Happy Gilmore.

Aﬁer a brief visit to Otterville, Matt and I headed back
to the Lodge to ﬁnd everyone passed out but that group
of troopers, alums included, who get better and better at
causing trouble as the night goes on. Cheese ﬁghts and
ﬁreworks ensued as Late Night got sketchy. The time ﬁ-
nally came to call the night quits. I had to wrestle my
crutches and handbag away from Matt, who had grown
quite fond of carrying them all weekend, at last able to
sleep for those three precious hours before my house woke
up and gathered in the hallway, recalling somewhat hazy

.egperiences from the previous evening. I gathered my
strength and hobbled to brunch, where my friends will-
ingly shared the events of their weekends at other houses
and parties. I still think my weekend was the most fun.

A quick thank you to all who helped me out this week-
end in my gimpiness. I had a wonderful time and deeply
appreciate the extra lengths you all went to to make my
injury bearable and somewhat humorous. I promised you
an interesting time, right? Anything for you special people!

So how did I sprain my ankle so badly it was 25 differ-
ent colors and the size of a grapefruit? Maybe I stepped
on it wrong (I was wearing heels, after all) and just didn’t
realize, or maybe I got up in the middle of the night and fell
on one of the million black shoes scattered all over my
floor from the then recent scramble to dress for the
evening’s events.

In honor of the Fancy Dress theme of this year, my luck
ran out — I threw the dice badly, ended up with huge
gambling debts, and my loan shark sent one of his men to
come break my leg. It makes for a pretty good story to tell
everyone next year, don’t you think?

 

— John Creek ’02

“I didn’t even know who my date

7 91

W88.

— Brandon Herd ’02

Once again,
The Trident is a
hit and miss

For some reason the editors over at The Trident de-
cided last week to give their staff circus midget an-
other opportunity to be funny in a shody attack on
this paper. And much like when you release a monkey
from its
cage, it in-
variably
invovles
the mon-
key play-
ing in its
own feces
and throwing a lot of crap around. Just like Mr.
Guggenheimer’s article (if, in fact, it really deserves that
moniker).

It struck me as the tropes of a exceedingly
unhumorous individual, trying a bit too hard. Of course
most of the student body didn’t get a chance to see it
because for some reason our counterpart keeps forgetting
to get their papers printed, causing The Trident to appear

  

3 Bad<pord1B_alderdash
 Michael Crittenden 01

i any time from Wednesday to Friday.

This is understandable however, since I know the
editors over at The Trident are working hard to get all
the hard-hitting stories that we miss. Or the ones we
get. It seems that the “reporters” for The Trident seem
to have a penchant for just taking stories we’ve al-
ready done and spitting them back out three days later.
That way the student body has no excuse for missing
the “news”.

Take last week’s issue: there’s an article about the
freshmen who pulled the ﬁre alarms that we had already
ran, an article on the FD bands we had already done, and
an editorial on letting the Honor Scholars party that we
had already done.

As much as I enjoy doing your work for you and giving
you ideas for stuff to write, come on, at least have some
originality.

I also love the fact that The Trident is brave enough to
run controversial stories on topics like the swing dance
club, GCF ski retreats, the ABC store, and the Volcano
shutting down. . . again. The high level of journalism that
must go into these in-depth reports is amazing. Unfortu-
nately they are frequently written in a style more suited for
the “Highlights for Children” magazine, or even on the
level of “See Spot run.” Either that or there are complete
sentences left out.

My favorite part of last week’s issue was the letter to
the editor talking about men’s basketball that was cut off
in mid-sentence and never ﬁnished anywhere else in the
rag you call a paper. You should probably look into ﬁnish-
ing what you started.

I also am quite interested about the attack on our habit
of including weekly staff editorials. See, the whole con-
cept of a staff editorial is to express what the whole staff
feels. Hence, when we write something as a staff editorial it
can be attributed to all of us. Of course it is a tool used by
real newspapers, so you probably wouldn’t know about
that, being too busy searching for that perfect piece of
ﬂuff.

Oh, and what you referred to in your article as “nick-
names” are called bylines by newspapers. Difﬁcult con-
cept I know.

We actually have an extra copy of the AP Stylebook
and Libel Manual if you want to borrow a copy. In fact,
stop by some Sunday and we can show you how you’d go
about ﬁnding stories with more substance than a bag of
feathers.

Or you could use it to stand on so that the next time you
open your mouth we adults don’t have to lean down to
hear you all the time.

   

 uote of the week:
((

Why aren’t you guys at
Cat Fancy?

— Confused law school prospectives

TALKbaCk...WI1at did you think of FD?

“It was a lot like a high school
prom with better decorations.”
—— Divya Mohan ‘O2

 

 

(‘I112 iﬁing-tum iﬂlti

 VV& IFE

MARCH 6, 2000

 

Lights, Luck and Luxury: Destination Las Veas

   

Scenes from Washington and Lee’s 93rd Fancy'Dress Ball , ' it

I .

photo by Emily Barnes/
Photo Editor

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

  
 
 
 

HAVING A ‘BALL’: Ashley Rowland of Auburn.University, junior CAMERA SIIY? Junior Ted Adams and his date strike a pose.

Ward Davenport, Julie Stanley of Wofford College and
junior Patrick Stowe.

DESTINATION: VEGAS. Musical entertainment
Casper transports students to a place where
lights, luck and luxury rule, at Washington and
Lee’s 93rd Annual Fancy Dress Ball.

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
SHALL WE DANCE? A couple sways to some of FD’s softer sounds.

 

- photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Editor
, HAPPY BIRTHDAY, MR. PRESIDENT? Marilyn Monroe, reportedly
visiting from South America, put in an appearance.

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
Y’ALL AIN’T NUTIIIN’ BUT HOUNDDOGS: Students gather around special guest impersonator Elvis Presley, from his vintage Vegas days.

I

Y

 

oSl' \/\/&L/ stuclants Lave

RETIREMENT INSURANEE MUTUALFUNDS TRUST SEFIVIEES TUITION FINANEING

While TIAA-[REF

invests for the long term,
it's nice to see performance
like this today.

TlAA-CREF delivers impressive results like these by    ACETJ

combining two disciplined investment strategies.

_ _ “/n - % "/o
In our equity accounts, for example, we combine . . .
active management with enhanced indexing.With two 1 YEAR 5 YEARS SINCE INCEPTION
, AS OF 12/31/99 AS OF 12/31/99 5/1/92
strategies, we have two ways to seek out

With over $250 billion in assets, we're the world's largest

performance opportunities—helping to make your

investmentsworktwiceas hard retirement company and the leading choice on

EXPENSERATIO Combine this with our low America's campuses. If that sounds good to

cmcwm expenses and youqi see how you, consider this numberl 800-842-2776. Call and ﬁnd
EQUITIES

0.37“

T|AA-CREF stands apart from out how TIAA-CREF can work for you today

the competition. and tomorrow.

Based on wet cont survev
data tram 1998,1999 I V
Ensuringthefuture 1 8 0 D 8 4 2 ' 2 7 7 6

Fllllllﬂll II a rant from ‘ ‘ T .
V 9 i i for those who shape it.”
have invested will ﬂuctuate, so the shares you own may be more or less than their original price upon redemption. Foreign stock markets are sub'ect to additional risks from changing

currency values, interest rates, government regulations, and political and economic conditions. 2.TlAA—CREF expenses are subject to change an are not guaranteed for the future. 3.

vi    - Source: Morningstar, Inc. 12/31/99,tracking 279 world stock mutual funds.TlAA{REF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes CREF certificates and interests in the TIAA Real
Estate Account.Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the variable component of the personal annuities, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements.TlAA and TIAA-CREF
Life Insurance Co.issue insurance and annuities.TlAA{REF Trust Cornpany,FS8 provides trust rviceslnvestment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not banlt guar-

    n(r)tt03oT¢'!’.J\og{rEt;re/c)t(>)mplete information on CREF, including charges and expenses,cal| 1 800 842—2776, ext. 5509, for the prospectus. Read it carefully before you invest or send money.©
2 l .

www.tiaa-tref.org

1.The investment results shown for the CREF variable annuity reflect past performance and are not indicative of future rates of return.These returns and the value of the principal you

Buy an ice cold can of
Coca-Colai classic _
from specially marked
on-campus vending

machines and you
could win an exclusive
Universal Music CD.
Offer ends

March 31, 2000.

Look for more Universal
Studios experiences

this summer!

UNIVERSAL MUSIC

Special Markets

 

PAGE 6

SP0

Glitz itting-tum lﬂlti

RTS

MARCH 6, 2000

Lax passes
ﬁrst test

Fifth-ranked Washington and Lee
surged to a 7-1 halﬁime advantage and
held off a furious second half rally by
sixth-ranked Washington College for
a 10-8 win over the Shoremen on Sat-
urday aftemoon. The win makes head
coach Jim Stagnitta (109-39) the
winningest lacrosse coach in W&L
history, surpassing Jack Emmer (1973-
83).

W&L (3-0) went up top 4-0 with
13:24 remaining in the ﬁrst half on a
pair of goals by senior attackman Colin
Dougherty and one each by senior
attackman Chris Brown and junior
midﬁelder Bernie Norton.

' Washington (0-1) retaliated with
6:33 left in the half to cut the W&L
lead to 4- 1.

The Generals then reeled off/, three
goals in the ﬁnal 4:49, one by sopho-
more midﬁelder John Moore, and two
by Brown, to take to 7-1 halftime lead.

Washington then began its come-
back to cut the Generals lead to just 7-
4 with 2:05 left in the third. However,
Brown would add another goal for
W&L with :35 remaining in the period
to give the Generals an 8-4 edge head-
ing into the ﬁnal quarter.

In the fourth, W&L struck ﬁrst as
junior midﬁelder Tom Burke scored
off an assist from Norton with 13:33
remaining to give the Generals a 9-4
lead.

The Shoremen came back with a
goal just 18 seconds later and another
just 18 seconds after that to slice the
W&L lead to 9-6.

Dougherty notched his third goal
of the day with 7: 14 remaining to give
W&L a 10-8 lead and the defense
would stiffen to hold the Shoremen
scoreless for the duration of the game.

Dougherty led the Generals with
three goals and three assists, while
Brown tallied four goals. Norton
notched one goal and three assists,
while junior attackman Matt Dugan
added a pair of assists. Junior goalie
Wes Hays notched eight saves in
goal.

Washington and Lee will be in ac-
tion again on Sunday, Mar. 12, as it
hosts third-ranked Gettysburg in a
1:00 pm contest.

-— Courtesy of Sports Information

Visit the CRT website to receive more
information and to request
an application.

Castle
Rock

Institute

student

counciltravel.com
1-800-Zcouncil

CONTAINING THE OPPOSITION: Sophomores Eloise Priest and Emily

Generals’ win on Saturday. W&L cruised over Denison 18-10 to improve their record to 2-0.

Generals baseball earns split on weekend

By Mike Weil

STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee Gener-
als’ baseballteam went two for four
on the weekend, getting swept at
Saturday’s doubleheader against
Emory and Henry before sweeping
Washington and Jefferson on Sun-
day.

The Generals were unable to mus-
ter up much offense the in game on
Saturday, tallying only six hits while
striking out eleven times. Junior
David Sigler took the loss for the
Generals, allowing ﬁve earned runs
on 13 hits.

Sophomore third baseman Matt
Kozora let the Generals notching
two hits and two RBIs in W&L’s 6-3
loss.

Game two provided a similar story
as the Waspsjumped on the Gener-
als early and the W&L bats were

www.castle—roc.k.org

PO. Box 792. Brevard, NC 28712

8Z8«8(>Z» 7 59

slumping. Emory and Henry scored
six runs in the first inning, and
would never look back for a 9-3 vic-
tory.

Wasp junior catcher Josh Glaze
earned his place in W&L history,
slamming the ﬁrst ever home run in
the new Smith Field. Senior
rightﬁelder Schuyler Marshall went
2-for-3 to lead the Generals offen-
sively. The losses were the ﬁrst suf-
fered by the Generals at home this
season.

Sunday brought different results
for the Generals, as they swept
Washington and Jefferson to even
up their ODAC record at 2-2.

The Presidents jumped in front in
their half ofthe ﬁrst inning with an
unearned run, but the Generals re-
sponded in a big way in the bottom
half.

W&L loaded the bases to start
the inning, bringing sophomore

catcher Todd Gosselink to the plate.
Gosselink belted W&L’s ﬁrst home
run at Smith Field, and the ﬁrst
grand slam in ﬁeld history, giving
the Generals a 4-1 lead.

They would score four more runs
in the inning and cruise on their way
to a 15-1 victory.

W&L was led by senior Chris
Stakem who threw a complete game
two-hitter, striking out six while only
walking one.

Game two would beia struggle for
the Generals, who found themselves
down 7-3 in the bottom ofthe ﬁfth.
However five Washington and
Jefferson errors along with four
W&L hits produced a six run inning
and a 9-7 lead that would not be re-
linquished.

Freshman Kyle Droppers pitched
two innings in reliefto earn the win,
and senior David Hanson pitched
two thirds of an inning to earn the

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

Owens transition to double team their Denison opponent during the

save in the Generals’ 11-10 victory.

Offensively, Stakem went 4-for-4
for the game while freshmen Bobby
Littlehale and Michael Hanson
notched two hits apiece.

Sunday’s excellent play was in
steep contrast to Saturday’s de-
bacle. -
“It was a combination of things,”
said Stakem. “Obviously Washing-
ton and Jefferson wasn’t as strong
ofa team, but we were able to com-
bine better defensive play with more
consistent offense.”

And as for the two hit master-
piece he threw on Sunday?

“I was able to throw all three of
my pitches for strikes, and Todd
Gosselink called a great game. The
offspeed pitches were really work-
ing.”

The Generals return to action
Wednesday when they host Villa
Julie at 3:00 p.m.

Women’s
lax goes 2-0

By Robert Turner

STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee’s women’s la-
crosse team used a high-powered of-
fense and a solid defense to earn two
impressive victories this week against
Hollins and Denison.

On Wednesday, the Generals trav-
eled to Roanoke for their season
opener against ODAC rival Hollins.
The generals wasted little time getting
on the board, as freshman attacker
Leslie Bogart notched the ﬁrst goal of
her promising career 4:03 into the
game.

W&L continued its early domi-
nance, scoring four more unanswered
goals to gain a 5-0 lead late in the ﬁrst
half.

Hollins remained reasonable close
in the second half until the Generals
put the game out of reach on goals by
sophomore Emily Owens, senior
Katherine Riddle, and freshman Laura
Wilson. Senior goalkeeper Ginny
Jemigan also had a solid season de-
but, recording nine saves in the Gen-
erals’ 9-5 victory.

W&L’ s offense was even more po-
tent on Saturday as the Generals de-
feated the Big Red ofDenison 18- 10 in
their first home contest of the season.

The game was close early, and
Denison even led 2-1 8:42 into the first
half. W&L then went on a tear, scor-
ing six unanswered goals to take a 7-2
lead with 3:53 left in the first half.

The Generals added another goal
before the half, but Denison also
scored twice, and W&L took an 8-3
lead into intermission.

The Generals cam out strong to start
the second half, scoring ﬁve straight
goals to take a commanding 13-5 lead
with 24:00 left in the match. W&L
coasted to the win from that point.

W&L was led by Riddle and junior
Ellen Ritch who both posted ﬁve goals.
Bogart and Wilson also had impressive
performances for the second straight
game with two goals each. Bogart
added a team-high four assists. Jemigan
had ten saves for the Generals.

The Generals (2-0 overall, l-0
ODAC) put their undefeated record on
the‘ line Saturday at Randolph-Macon.
Game time is set for 1:00 p.m.

Please describe

{—

:4 ..«:

, p Academicgcouple‘  donoraged‘21-Z8  9  it I

 Outstanding-SATs‘-‘academics, analytical,‘even-tempered,i,‘darkb:ha.irand
I olivecornplection, even-featured, 5’7’—’_ or taller, .and lean/athletic build. , 7 I

l“

rnotivationaélong withiseverallretumable photositozf

I PO Box 22, WestKingston,
- Rhode Island 02892. A
I All serious replies answered.

<  $4,;,i:..:j’é‘f(forr1pensation$-1.2,00():.-. ),.:j’s '8

  

4.

The June 12"‘ LSAT
is approaching.

Get the score that gets you in.

Classes start March 21

at Washington and Lee

1-800-KAP-TEST
kaptest.com

‘LSAT is a registered trademark of the Law School Admission Council.

THIS YEAR A LOT OF COLLEGE
SENIORS WILL BE GRADUATING
INTO DEBT.

up to a $65,000 limit.

in default.

 

The offer applies to Perkins Loans, Stafford Loans,
and certain other federally insured loans, which are not _

And debt relief is just one of the many beneﬁts
you’ll earn from the Army. Ask your Army Recruiter.

(540) 886-2651

ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE?

www.goarmy.com

Under the Army’s
Loan Repayment
program, you could get
out from under with a
three-year enlistment.

Each year you serve
on active duty reduces
your indebtedness by one-
third or $1,500, which-
ever amount is greater,

 

It never
gets 010':
E1; article
could go
here!

Write P121’

Sports.
Email:
phi@wlu.edu.
All serious
replies
answered.

‘C

~q'

1'

‘I’

 

