 

€2ns.755
R5571-
v.[o’2.
VIOIIQ
r C - L-

  

1" ‘ ‘i IL?’ ( I‘ U!’ l\...3 .

[FXlf‘J.TFi'l‘{.3‘.¥t, VA Er-£!.!f‘.G

"Pa 0 32000

. U112 ‘Ring-tum

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

V

 

hi

, VOLUME 102, NO. 19

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

i victory, McCain takes three states

By Max Smith

NEWS EDITOR

Featuring an Exxon Valdez
ﬂoat, “reliable windsocks,” and
plenty of Texas bashing, Wash-
ington and Lee’s 2000 Republi-
Y can Mock Convention went off
without a hitch. Students
weren't disappointed with the
political spectacle that rolls
)‘ around only once during their
W&L career.

“I had a great time,” freshman
Katherine Hill. “I really enjoyed
all of the speeches, especially
Y Bob Dole’s.”

Capped off with a balloon
drop, the convention empha-
sized good times just as much
as it did the serious business of
selecting the Republican presi-
dential nominee.

To no one’s surprise, Texas
Gov. George W. Bush ran away
It with the electoral votes and
nomination. State delegations
spent months researching their
states’ electoral process, politi-
cal background and candidate
support right up until the week-
end. Working through a rigor-
ous and structured research
system, students contacted
H several leaders from their state
and gauged the state's decision
based upon their response.
Leaders in the Convention deﬁ-
nitely felt the heat of upholding
K W&L’s tradition of accuracy.

“I don’t even want to think
what would happen to me if we
get it wrong,” political chairman
David Dardis told The Roanoke
Times on Friday. “They’d prob-

nu?

ably strip the flesh from my bones
and hang the carcass to all those
who might fail in the future.”

But most students left the re-
search up to their state leaders and
just showed up at state parties and
maybe even to help with the ﬂoat.

States teamed up for parties
throughout the week and up to Sat-
urday night. From Tequila Sunrise
parties Friday and Saturday morn-
ing, to the Southern states’ party
at the Volcano Wednesday night,
students made sure to put a W&L
stamp on the whole affair.

Earlier this week, the Student Ac-
tivities Pavilion was stuffed with
state ﬂoats in various states of con-
struction. Wood shavings and the
noxious fumes of spray paint mixed
with beer and pizza as the crunch
time of Thursday night drew near.

‘Friday morning’s parade
brought plenty of humorous ﬂoats
toting students fresh from their 7:30
a.m. Champagne Brunch. Some
states opted to poke fun at them-
selves by employing state stereo-
types. The Roanoke Times empha-
sized students’ irreverence in the
parade. Mock Con only set two
rules this year: don't throw things
at the crowd and don't drink while
on the ﬂoat.

Parade highlights included
Alaska's Exxon Valdez ﬂoat, com-
plete with a drunken captain swerv-
ing around the street and oil-cov-
ered animals following behind. The
Washington, D.C. float carried
Monica Lewinsky and President
Bill Clinton while reporters sur-
rounded them.

The Hawaii ﬂoat won most hu-
morous and Georgia triumphed in

. Mock Con predicts Bush as GOP candidate

Texas governor wins sweeping “mock”

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

MOCK CON LUAU: Members of the Hawaii delegation bring a little “island spirit” to a
Republican event. Their ﬂoat won ﬁrst place in the “Most Humorous” category.

the Best-overall category with their
“Midnight Train to Georgia” loco-
motive.

Friday afternoon and evening
was highlighted by its political
speakers. Most spent their time
preaching the general Republican

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

MR. VICE PRESIDENT? Rep. J.C. Watts (R-OK) brings a little “fire and brimstone” to W&L.

platform and bashing Democrats,
especially the Clinton presidency.

Oklahoma Gov. Frank Keating
provided memorable fodder by de-
picting Al Gore as, “a reliable
windsock” on issues like the NRA,
Social Security, tobacco and cam-

paign finance reform. Keating
insisted on driving his
windsock theme into the
ground and students began to
chant the slogan with him near

SEE ‘MOCK CON’ ON PAGE 2

Mock Con On—Air

National media ﬂocks to Lexington

By Max Smith

NEWS EDITOR

Mock Con’s drunken revelry is go-
ing prime time.

CNN, C-SPAN, NPR, the Washing-
ton Times, FOX News, and the Dallas
Morning News all attended Saturday’s
session. The Associated Press and
United Press International, both national
wire services that provide stories to
newspapers nationwide, attended as
well.

The Wall Street Journal, Time and
MTV may feature the Convention. ABC
Radio News aired a piece Saturday night.

Media Chair Sean Eddy said stu-
dents should check the Mock Con web
site for national air times.

“Our committee worked really hard
in the past months and especially the
last two weeks to bring in the press,”
Eddy said. “This is good publicity for

both Mock Con and the University.”

MTV may air a piece on Mock
Con for their “Choose or Lose”'se-
ries. They didn’t send a crew, but
Eddy said MTV shares footage with
CNN.

Eddy said Mock Con’ s timing be-
fore the New Hampshire primaries,
where a lot of media are spending
the weekend, limited the number of
news organizations that could have
attended.

CNN, who attended the Conven-
tion for the first time, was especially
impressed with the logistics and ex-
ecution of the student-run event,
Eddy said. All of the reporters told
Eddy that had a fun time covering
Mock Con.

The media left Eddy hanging
until the end. C-SPAN agreed to
come on Tuesday and CNN decided
to come on Friday.

 

 

Ramsey responds to controversy

N Overnight Guest House resident: “I’m not looking for trouble”

By Christie Phillips

STAFF WRITER

“I never denied it when I was ar-
rested. Back then I was young. I drank
and did drugs. There isn’t a day gone
by that I don’t want to take it all back.”
I; Todd Lee Ramsey, 33, was charged

with attempted rape of a minor in 1986.

Weeks ago he moved into the Over-

night Guest House, a residence next

to the Washington and Lee campus.

’‘ “I'm just here working. Everyday
working. I’m not looking for trouble,”
Ramsey said. “I don’t judge people
until I know them. I did something
when I was 18. I’m 33 now—there’s a
big difference.”

Since Ramsey was convicted of at-
tempted rape in 1986, he has been reg-
istered with the state as a sex offender.
)4‘ Sex offender records and registries are
made available to the public through
Megan’s Law, a law that allows citi-

zens access to the information so that
they know sex offenders living in their
neighborhoods. Through this law,
W&L security learned that Ramsey
was residing in the area.

“He hasn’t caused any problems
for us yet, but we’re keeping our eyes
open,” said Mike Young, director of
security at W&L.

On Tuesday, security sent a cam-
pus-wide e-mail about Ramsey and his
location. It warned students that
Ramsey has been convicted of at-
tempted rape twice, once in 1986 and
again in 1998. According to the Vir-
ginia State Police sex offender record,
three other convicted sex offenders
live in Lexington, but Ramsey's prox-
imity to campus worried authorities.

“We felt obligated to let everyone
know he’s residing there,” said Young.
“We just want to be safe.”

Many students have already taken
precautions to ensure their safety.

W&L sophomore Tiffany Friedel lives
in Gaines Dormitory, the student resi-
dence directly behind the Overnight

-Guest House.

“I don’t walk past that building any-
more,” she said. “It’s very scary. I go
all the way around through the gym to
get home.”

Other students echo Friedel‘ s anxi-
ety about Ramsey"s presence.

“I was walking to the Language
Lab on Tuesday night after just read-
ing the campus e-mail,” said junior
Amy Borgman. “It was dark and I got
freaked out.”

But Ramsey claims he is not here
to cause more trouble.

“I did a crime, I did my time,” he said.
”Everybody wants to judge me. I don't
judge people until I get to know them.
I’m just like y’ all are. My record doesn’t
speak for it, but I’m a kind person.”

SEE ‘RAMSEY’ ON PAGE 2

January 31, 200%

OPINION:

W&LIFE:

I SPORTS:

LAST WORD:

(J11: ‘ﬂing-tum ilﬂhi

Popular reaction to Mock Con

Zounds! Welles’ Falstaff takes stage

Generals give Tigers a good ﬁght

.McManemin vs. Decency?

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

PAGE 5

PAGE 6

MONDAY, JANUARY 31, 2000

Fewer
ﬂasks?

Mock Con sees few
alcohol problems
By Mike Crittenden

Assocm TE EDITOR

Despite the bacchanal that was this
year's Mock Convention, major inci-
dents involving alcohol and conven-
tion goers were kept at a minimum.

“It was pretty quiet, we didn’t really
have any problems,” said Jane Wheel-
ing at the Student Health Center.

Washington and Lee’s director of
security, Mike Young, agreed saying
that this year’s Mock Convention was
fairly tame.

“We just kept an eye out and sup-
ported the Mock Convention security
people,” Young said. “It was pretty
tame.”

The convention was not without
its problems, however, as at least two
students vomited on the convention
ﬂoor, and a belligerent alumnus was
escorted from the convention. Mock
Convention’s head of security, sopho-
more Mac Everist, said it was nothing
unexpected.

“Overall, things were status quo for
a Washington and Lee function,”
Everist said.

Everist said that the biggest prob-
lem was the drunken alumnus who had
to be thrown out of the convention
because he was too belligerent and was
attempting to cause trouble.

“The man had taken one too many
trips to the VIP room,” Everist said. “He
was bothering the speakers and other
guests and so we had to get rid of him.
We warned him, but when he tried to
get on the microphone security grabbed
him and made him leave.

In addition to the two vomiteers,
both juniors, and the alumnus, two of
the delegations were not allowed to par-
ticipate in Friday’s parade through Lex-
ington because of alcohol use. Accord-
ing to one student, who asked to re-
main anonymous, the Lexington Police
Department was searching Breubaker
Field, where the ﬂoats started on Fri-

. day morning.

Both the homestate Virginia and
Tennessee ﬂoats were removed from
parade entrants before the parade be-
gan for drinking and possessing al-
cohol on or near their ﬂoats. Though
disappointing to members of each del-
egation, they made the best of it, lin-
ing up on the parade route together
and chanting. According to Everist,
the cops were well within their
bounds.

“The delegations who were caught
were way too obvious about what they
were doing,” Everist said. “Some stu-
dents went so far as to walk up to the
police and tell them they wouldn’t stop
drinking. That just isn’t smart.”

All in all, Everist said, the conven-
tion was a success from a security
standpoint except for the few minor
incidences and was even humorous.

“It was funny to watch the stu-
dents waving ﬂags fall off their chairs
occasionally.”

 

photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Editor
VMI MAKES THEIR MARK. The VM]
Color Guard presents the ﬂags
opening each session of Mock Con.

 

 

 

 

F I @112 Ztting-tum ﬂirt

JANUARY 31, 2000

BIG SKY COUNTRY: The Montana state ﬂoat brought some backwoods c
Lexington during Friday morning’s parade. Those aren’t real bears or ﬁrearms, by the way.

hoto by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
arm to the streets of

 

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

A FLASHBACK TO ‘96?: Keynote speaker and 1996 GOP Presidential candidate Bob Dole
addresses the crowd during Saturday morning’s session.

‘RAMSEY’ from page 1

Ramsey spent 12 years in prison for his conviction in
1986.

“Life inside isn’t easy," he said. “Everyone thinks its
great in prison - you get three hot meals and a bed to sleep
in. But it isn't like that. You wake up in the morning and
wonder ifyou’re going to live.”

“Prison is, I guess you could say, another world,” he
continued. “It's nothing compared to this one that you
enjoy.”

Ramsey was released on Feb. 10, 1997. In 1998 he was
again convicted of attempted rape here in Rockbridge
County.

“I didn’t do it, that second time” Ramsey said. “My
lawyer told me to plea bargain, so I plea bargained. Ifl was
found guilty by ajudge I would have gone back to jail for
good. I didn’t want to go back tojail.”

Ramsey said he had sex with the woman who accused
him of rape the second time, but it was not forced contact.

“Nine times out of 10, the girl who accused me will say
I didn’t do it,” he said. “She just needed someone to blame.”

For his plea bargain, Ramsey received a sentence of 100
days in jail and ﬁve years probation. He is currently serv-
ing that probation.

“I’mjust a person,” he said. “Ijust want to get on with
my life. Iwant to pay my bills and court ﬁnes and get out of
here in a couple of months.”

Ramsey was arrested Tuesday night on a capius for not
paying a court ﬁne. That night he was also charged with
three counts of passing worthless checks. After paying a
ﬁne, he was released.

“I was arrested for a $50 court ﬁne,” he said. “I had to
pay $300 to get out ofjail. Heck, I should have just paid the
court ﬁne.”

Ramsey is currently working for the electric company
on a new construction site in the area. He moved into the
Overnight Guest Houses after he caught his live-in girl-

friend with another man.

“I walked in on her and another guy,” Ramsey said. “I
kicked her and him out butt naked and told her it was over.
But I couldn't live in that house anymore. That's why I'm
staying here.”

Ramsey does not think he's asking for trouble living in
the Guest Houses, which are located next to three fresh-
man dorms.

“I'm not trying to go back to prison,” he said. “IfI look
at my past I'll never make a future for myself.”

“If you want to know about my past, ask me. I’m
ashamed, but I’ll talk. Everyone makes mistakes, some are
just bigger than others.”

Though Ramsey claims he is a gentle man, his past
speaks for itself. While in prison, Ramsey stabbed a fellow
inmate.

“It was a choice, me or him,” he said. “He pulled a knife
on me and so I stabbed him. Ifa guy pulls a knife on you,
you know he's going to use it — ifnot now, sometime.”

If caught stabbing the inmate, Ramsey could have
earned more time behind bars. But he wasn't caught.

In his 12 years of imprisonment, Ramsey was moved
seven times to six different penitentiaries.

“You get moved around a lot when you get in trouble,”
he said.

Ramsey also continued his drug use in prison.

“Me and cocaine, we were good buds,” he said. “There
are more drugs in prison than on the streets. You want
homemade mash, you got it. You want a drink, name your
favorite."

Ramsey has two tattoos to show for his years in prison.
A huge Guns ‘N Roses symbol marks his right forearm. On
his left forearm is a heart with a dagger through it and a
snake climbing the dagger.

“See that one,” he said. “Know what that means? ‘Love
sucks?”

‘MOCK CON’ from page 1———

the end of the speech. But Keating seemed oblivious
to their mocking chants at the press conference after-
wards.

“It's an honor and great opportunity for me to come
here,” Keating said. “I'm really impressed by the num-
ber of people involved. These young people are in-
formed and it's essential to know your leaders.”

Keating went on to describe why he has come out
in support of Gov. Bush.

“Bush is the
governor of a
country and he's
doing it well,”
Keating said.
“He's making
tough decisions
and advocates a
consistent value
system.”

Keating ar-
rived one hour
before taking
the stage and
left after dinner
for Oklahoma
City since the
state legislature
is set to begin
budget hearings
this week.

Bob Ross,
the 1996 Mock
Con Political
Chairman who is
now an Okla-
homa City law-
yer, suggested
the trip to
Keating and he
im m e d i a t e ly
agreed. Sopho-

MOCK CON PANDEMONIUM. Delegates show their state pride at

“I thought he was a powerful speaker with good
things to say about the Republican platform,” fresh-
man Patrick Lauler said. “He translated a political mes-
sage into a sermon.”

Watts was one of the keynote speakers at the 1996
Republican Convention. Mock Con Advisor William
Connelly said Watts presence is felt throughout the party.

“He has a galvanizing effect on the party,” Connelly
said. “He broadens the party's base.” ‘

The Pressroom was filled with supporters wearing
“J.C. Watts for President” buttons after the speech.
Watts talked
with only a few
in the throng;
most were con-
tent to watch
him up close
and try to get an
autograph. It
was Watts first
visit to W&L,
although his
staff attended in
1996 and ad-
vised him to ac-
cept the invita-
tion.

“The Repub-
lican Party
needsito make
who we are rel-
evant to young
people and a
night like to-
night doesn't
hurt in connect-
ing with the
youth,” Watts
said. “It would
be nice if all of
Congress could
be around this

photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Editor
raw energy and

more Drew _ _ _ _ not be so
Crighton is a one of the sessions, anxiously awaiting the keynote speaker. jaded.”
friend of When asked

Keating's son when they lived in Northern Virginia
and met Keating after the speech.

Virginia Attorney General Mark Earley ﬁlled the omi-
nous TBA spot in Session II's schedule. He was called
late in the week and jumped at the chance to speak.

“I was happy to do it,” Earley said. “This is a great
opportunity for student and community involvement
in the electoral process."

Republican National Committee Chairman Jim
Nicholson followed with a speech poking fun at Gore's
propensity to claim responsibility for popular initia-
tives like the Internet. Nicholson used slide projec-
tions in a speech that seemed like a long string of
jokes about Gore and Clinton. Nicholson received a
tepid response at best from students for his efforts at
humor.

Afterwards, Nicholson praised the convention.

“I hope our convention is as well executed and or-
ganized as yours,” Nicholson said. “The energy and
enthusiasm out there is really contagious.”

Nicholson also described his opinion ofthe central
issue in the presidential race.

“The character and trust issue will be the most im-
portant because people don't trust the president and
Gore can't restore that trust,” Nicholson said. “He's
joined at the hip with Clinton.”

Oklahoma Representative J.C. Watts was a crowd
favorite. His fiery style was straight out of the
preacher's pulpit, where he has spent some time. He
managed to quiet the inebriated crowd and bring it to
its feet at will. His speech focused on youth, national
pride and the need to unite the Republican party.

He ended with a metaphorical story on the disap-
pearance of“little Johnny” and the need tojoin hands
with others for the common good.

about running under Bush as Vice President, Watts,
who hasn't annou-nced if he will run for the House
again, strongly hinted he would take the opportu-
nity.

“It would be like your Mother calling,” Watts said.
“I am a Bush supporter and will do all I can, but the
nominees owe me nothing . . .just good government.”

Watts left Washington on Friday, stayed at W&L

.. three hours before .his speech, and left after the press

conference for the Super Bowl in Atlanta. _.

Fireworks filled the sky by the footbridge to round
out day one.

Area Congressman Bob Goodlatte kicked off
Saturday's session. He was followed by former Secre-
tary of Education Bill Bennett. Bennett was spotted at
the Palms Friday night and made reference to his
"search for virtue" there in his speech.

Bennett focused on attacking Clinton, the Demo-
cratic ideal of“big government,” and the liberal faults
in foreign policy.

“[Clinton] has disgraced and degraded everything
he has touched,” Bennett said. “It's time to put the

grown-ups back in charge of foreign policy.”

Convention keynote speaker and 1996 presidential
candidate Bob Dole rounded out the speaker list. Dole
praised the convention during his speech.

“You may be responsible for hundreds of thou-
sands of people participating in the political process
and that is worth the time you spend here,” Dole said.

Dole went on to criticize Gore's lack of action in the
Clinton White House.

“If you were second in command, our Vice Presi-
dent, in one ofthe most corrupt administrations in our
nation's history and you did nothing to stop it,” Dole
said, “indeed, you applauded it.”

photo by Tiffany Friedel/Assistant Photo Editor

AND THE NOMINEE IS. . . The balloons drop on the crowd Saturday afternoon after the convention
nominates George W. Bush as the future Republican candidate for the presidency.

 

JANUARY 31, 2000

OP

@112 ﬁling-tum iﬁlii

INION

 

PAGE 3

Staff

Editorial

Anyone who has ever set foot in the J-school knows
Prof. Brian Richardson’s famous mantra: “If your mother
says she loves you, check it out”. This is a lesson often
learned the hard way, and most majors ﬁnally get the point
via a zero received for a fact error.

Obviously, not all of the students who put together
W&L student publications are journalism majors, but we
all still strive to check everything out.

Last week, we received an advertisement from a private
individual who was offering to buy local phone books for
$40. Normally, we don’t question advertisers. We operate
under the principle that they as much right to buy space in
our publication as you, the reader, have to ignore their
message.

We have, on very rare occasions, refused advertising
based on content. And last week, based on the possibly
invasive nature of the advertisement, we did what every
survivor of Richardson’s class would do: we checked it
out.

As we read our cruciﬁxion on the back page of The
Trident this week, it became apparent that not everybody
checks everything out. Your suggestion is duly noted, and
returned for your own consideration.

We called the number that you saw last week in the
paper long before we ever printed it. It would not accept
the collect calls the ad invited. We then called the number
that appeared on the check that arrived with the ad; it was
also based in Tennessee. The infonnation regarding Todd
Ramsey had not been released to the W&L community at
that point, and we had no real reason to believe that this
was anything more than a waste of money for the adver-
tiser in view of the fact that calls could not be placed.

With the release of Todd Ramsey’s past, however, many
people in the communityjumped to the conclusion that he
had placed the ad. He did not. Ramsey has resided in the
community long enough to be able to get his hands on a
Lexington phone book, and could get a W&L directory
simply by going by the Registrar’s ofﬁce. He had no need
to offer $40 from Tennessee for information that could be
obtained freely a stone’s throw from his place of residence.

Yeah, we have a convicted felon living in our midst.
Yeah, we need to take precautions. But even convicted
felons have rights in this country, and Ramsey can live
wherever he wants to.

The idea behind Megan’s Law was to provide knowl-
edge to unsuspecting communities. It was not to ensure
that people who had made mistakes would be cruciﬁed
wherever they went. You are forewarned, W&L. Act ac-
cordingly, and let him be.

   

uote of the Week:

George Washington could not
tell a lie, Bill Clinton cannot
tell the truth, and Al Gore
cannot tell the difference.

— RNC chair Jim Nicholson AND Va.
' Attorney General Mark Earley

))
Ellie ﬂing-tum ilﬁlii

Executive Editor Polly Doig
Associate Editor Michael Crittenden
News Editor Max Smith

Opinions Editor
W&Life Editor

Sports Editor

Last Word Editor

Copy Editor

Photo Editor

Assistant Photo Editors

Stephanie Bianco
Eliana Marziani
Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin
Heather McDonald
Emily Barnes
Tiffany Friedel
Lisa Lin

David Hanson

Layout Editor Neal Willetts

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Ofﬁce: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@w1u.edu
http://wIu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

‘TNOW Tl’lA'l‘S A

 

seuiete wlwosoct" ,
gov. FmnK l<cai1n3

 

(0 K)

Impressions of the 2000 Mock Convention

Flags fluttered and swayed around the transformed
gymnasium, people roared and clapped, and wrote mes-
sages to the world on their party hats. The 2000 Republi-
can Mock Convention has come and gone, and all that is
left is our memories, or lack thereof, and our hangovers.

From the haze of the past few days emerge two striking
impressions: the lack of respect we
as an institution received from the
speakers, and the lack of thought
which went into our behavior. By
this point we have a reputation for
being spoiled drunks, perhaps de-
servedly so. Both our own chair-
men and the speakers made crowd-pleasing references to
the level of intoxication, nights at the Palms, and how much
of a party our Mock Con really is. These werejokes, made
to wake up the crowd and evoke some good feeling. How-
ever, their frequency reflects the prominence of this as-
pect of Mock Con, and only serves to cement our reputa-
tion.

We were condescended to, egged on like children rather
than thinking adults, and we largely did not contradict
this. At times the lack of respect shown by the students
was embarrassing, as when our bourbon—brined chatter
became so loud that speakers had to raise their voices to
be heard over us. We were fully aware of the cameras trained
on us, and equally aware of the behavior expected of us.
By and large, we fulﬁlled expectations, but not much more.

We had a number of intelligent, powerful, and yes,
frankly famous people on stage, relating their ideas on

7‘-if

t

G.D.I.

ei..""“"-“‘

how we should see the Republican party and democracy
in general. Perhaps I underestimate, but how many truly
listened with an ear critical enough to separate ideas of
potential value from meaningless propaganda and catch-
words? By critical listening, I am not implying a lack of
loyalty or identiﬁcation with the Republican party; I am
' referring to compassing these speakers
by the meaning and weight of their words
and behavior.

How much thought did we put into
these speeches? We responded to invo-
cations of our revered Reagan, though
perhaps with more irony by the ﬁftieth
reference. We responded to sob stories of the noble rising
out of piteous circumstances. We responded to Watts’
abstract but well delivered charm. We responded to our
beloved Elrod, and to Dole’s name, seniority and perhaps
his sincerity. We responded individually with outbursts
of words that amused us — drugs, prostitutes, etc. Last but
not least (Texans are excluded) we responded reliably but
less‘ convincingly when th‘e’Mock’Con moment called’ for
it. In comparison, the most eloquent of dissertations on
the nature of liberty in our government elicited bleary nods.

Yes, we were stirred. But with the exception of
ironic or dutiful applause, it was our emotions which were
reached, not our minds. You might argue that it was a
party convention, with agreement implicit, needing only
to raise the passions. Yet to suspend the action of the
critical mind at any time is dangerous. We are Washington
and Lee students. We are the potential future leaders, or

the best hope our country has for leaders. Intelligent, well
educated, honest, and well versed in social manipulations,
we theoretically stand to take up the reins. We are, in fan-
tasy and for two days, hardened committed republican poli-
ticians. If we submit our independent critical thought in
order to fulﬁll expectations of soaked, apathetic, aristo-
crats, and in doing so we fall into the trap of image, power,
and emotionalism with which popular politics is conducted,
we quietly and unwittingly relinquish any real power and
advantages we have. We betray ourselves, and hand con-
trol over our futures to those remaining who are all too
willing to pick up what we cast aside.

The essence of a democratic republic is the active par-
ticipation of informed persons in their government. This
past weekend has been an exercise in the actual process
that controls that system. Our high level of participation
and enthusiasm in the Mock Convention commends us,
but knowledge and recognition of the forces behind the
platfonns, ideals, spoken words and impassioned pleas are
as important as participation and passion in a real republic.
Those who grasp this will ultimately be the onestocontrol
our republic, or to betray it.

Let us be more than well-educated wealthy children
who know how to drink hard. Merely fulﬁlling expected
stereotypes leaves us with no surprises for the world and
the future - it leaves us stagnant, moving neither forward
nor back. Let us question and think, then move beyond
expectations. We have the ability to do more than the aver-
age spin-doctored public: we have the ability to take our
republic and our future, into our own hands.

Snow leaves me searching for the perfect run

As I look out over the white tundra that Lexington has
become, I become a tad nostalgic, and a little more reas-
sured that things are almost right in the world.

I grew up with snow in the Lewiston, Maine, where
snow is an all encompassing force for ﬁve months out of
the year. Like a big brother or uncle, it is omnipresent and
wise beyond its years, teaching you the basic lessons of
life. Maxims like don’t eat the yellow snow, a rock in a
snowball will always sting a little more, and the perfect
sledding run
comes only once

snow and sled; slightly out of breath, your cheeks warm
and red from the cold, you lay there and realize that Kurtz
was wrong, forthis nature’s power is beautiful in its omni-
science.

That sound in the middle ofthe

perfect run. The silence quickly being broken, we would
excitedly yell while trudging through waist deep snow, no
one wanting to say that maybe this would be the day,
maybe we would ﬁnd it. We’d sled for hours upon hours,

inventing methods of freestyle

woods as you lay there after mak- sf
ing a run, where ifyou listen hard If 
enough you can hear the snow K 

  

s  Badiporch Balderdash
Midiael Crittenden ’O1

sledding that others can’t even be-
gin to comprehend. Eventually
getting tired, we would hurriedly

hit around you, and there is noth-
ing else. Just a blank
nothingness of sound that blankets you in your

66

every ﬁfty years
and you have to
take it when it
comes.

Like Bodhi

world was perfect in its
silence and authority

For in that moment the

excitement and happiness.

My friends and I spent a lifetime in the
woods near my house, woods where you could
walk for half-a-mile and disappear from civiliza-
tion for hours. There we would search and experi-

searching for the
perfect wave in
Point Break, my friends and I lived for what we envisioned
was the perfect sledding run. A combination ofa fast slope
deep in the woods, well worn trail (ones packed down by
snowmobiles are always the best), and the right tempera-
ture and night, the perfect run is more thanjust a sled run.
The adrenaline rush ofa winter night, the feel ofthe cold
sled through gloves and boots, the cold on your cheeks,
the sounds ofplastic on snow as you whip down the trail,
leaning your body slightly left or right in order to make
turns, before ﬁnally crashing in a spectacular debacle of

 

“It was the experience ofa
lifetime that I didn’t go to.”
— Eszter Pados ’00

 

“It was a perfect mix of partying
and politics.”
—— Natalie Swope ’0l

, , ment for the perfect sledding run, and at the same
' time slowly grow up and learning about ourselves
and our friendships.

I remember waking up at 6:30 in the morning, ﬁnding
out school was canceled and immediately calling Luke and
Matt, invariably waking up their parents. We would be out
in the snow within the hour, throwing snowballs, playing
king of the snow mountain, making forts that would with-
out failure crash in on us. At some point during the day a
feeling would come over us, and looking at each other we
would all nod knowingly and run inside, grabbing our sleds
and start walking towards the wilderness that held our

run Mock Con was.”

 

“I was impressed by how well-

race home to my mom’s hot choco-
late and beef stew, ﬁlling us up with
enough energy to do it all over again.

Waiting until around seven or eight at night, when it
really was dark, we would bundle back up with gloves and
hats, ski pants and parkas, and thick winter boots. We
would then go back out and continue that search late into
the night. I found that run one day, and it is something that
stays with me today, for in that moment the world was
perfect in its silence and authority.

My friend Luke and I were in the right place at the
right time, and we made that run, the two of us on my
little orange sled. Together we made that run, and in
that moment I realized real happiness and friendship; a
kinship with a friend and nature that will never leave
me. I

This is what I remember looking out on the snow that
has surrounded us in the last week, so enjoy it, it can
teach you a lot about yourself, or at least it can for a
black bear from Maine living in the south.

  

 

“I liked the elephant.”
—— Courtney Rosenthal ’03

— Mack Ewing ’03

 

 

 

PAGE 4

W&

@1112 ‘ﬂing-tum lﬂlii

IFE

JANUARY 31, 2000

Tragedy to strike W&L Friday night

the story,of his great spirit, in both its
strongest and weakest moments.

Martinez said, “This is a story that
absorbed Welles throughout his cre-
ative and personal life —— the story of
a paradise lost at the hands of a ruth-
less bureaucracy.”

Best known as an Orson Welles ﬁlm
adaptation, Martinez adapted the
script back into a play. The play brings
together stories of Falstaffs life re-
lated in Henry IV, Parts 1 and 2, Henry
V, The Merry Wives of Windsor, and a
little bit of Holinshed’s Chronicles,
which Martinez described as “a sort
ofquasi-history ofEngland.” “This is
a lot of different Shakespeare plays all
rolled in to one,” he said. “Since it’s
actually made from a ﬁlm, I think it’s
more accessible.” Not only does it take
key scenes from those plays to tell
about Falstaff’ s life and character, but
it is also a story of Prince Henry. “It’s

ﬁed as a comedy or a drama. “It’s a
little bit of both,” Martinez said.
“Falstaff is a comic character, but what
happens to him is tragic, so in that
sense it’s a little bit ofa drama as well.
He’s like a stand-up comic who has
gotten old, and no one’s really laugh-
ing at his jokes anymore. You’re sym-
pathetic to him, but you also see that
he drinks too much, is kind of a pig,
steals. . . so there are things about him
that are not very lovable. He’s kind of
a bittersweet character.”

Senior Brian Prisco will play the part
of this complex Falstaff, and he is go-
ing all out to do the job right.

“We’re having him shave his head
for the role to make him look older,”
Martinez said, adding that while Prisco
was willing, his mother was not very
happy with the arrangement.

Martinez decided last year that he
wanted to put this show on this year.

‘Now’s the time to do this.’ And he
does a wonderful job.”

So far, the cast has been working on
the show for four to ﬁve weeks, since
everyone returned from break. Students
rehearse about three hours a night, ﬁve
nights a week, plus three hours on one
of the days of the weekend.

“The students are rehearsing the
play 18-20 hours a week, which is a
tremendous amount of time,” Martinez
said. He is not a total slave-driver, how-
ever: he gave the students this week-
end off for Mock Con and the
Superbowl.

A lot of students are involved in
the play - in actors alone, there are al-
most 30, which is quite a signiﬁcant
number. Some of the cast includes
Francis McWilliams as Prince Henry,
sophomore Micah Tohnan as Hotspur,
junior Cassie Ritter as Lady Percy,
Hotspur’s wife, and even professor

swordﬁght with McWilliams (Prince
Hal) , the bathtub scene with Ritter
(Lady Percy) and the bar scene be-
tween Prisco (Falstaff) and
McWilliarns.

It has not all been easy. Tolman said,
“Long rehearsals and the language
proposes difﬁculty. Of course it is the
language that makes it so special, too.”

The cast hopes all their hard work
will be worthwhile, and they are opti-
mistic that it will. They are expecting a
fairly good turnout to the perfor-
mances. Martinez said, “We’re going
to have a lot of the local school sys-
tems out for it . . . local high schools,
English departments.”

Tolman agreed, “I think the show
is going to sail.”

The show opens Friday, Feb. 4 and
runs Feb. 5 and 7 at 8 p.m. and 6 at 2
p.m. Tickets are available from the
Lenfest Center Box Office, at 463-8000.

   

 

 

Signature Student

International Airport. Later, he
went to Northwestern University.
At different points in his North-
western career, he worked for
Stephane Kelian (a French Fran-
chise Boutique), Gianni Versace,
and Saks Fifth Avenue.

Finally, though, Freire decided
it was time to leave Chicago.

“During last spring at North-
western University, my English
professor showed interest in my
writing and after a year recom-
mended [that I] come to W&L,”
Freire said. “She believes that I will
be able to improve my writing here
much better than ifl stayed at
Northwestern University. Beverly,
my English professor believes that
a small school is the place for me.”

Currently Freire is a journalism
and mass communications major
at W&L.

Q: What do you want to do af-

    

 By Eliarma Marziani also a story about a boy who is torn “Brian is doing a really wonderful KrzysztofJasiewiczasCanterbury. _ ‘
I33‘ FEATURESEDITOR between two kinds of fathers,” job inhis role,” Martinez said. “In fact, Tohnan is excited about the play. “I     
E; Martinez said. “The prince loves one ofthe reasons I’m doing this play love Shakespeare, and the theater pro-
 Many might think that trying to di- Falstaff who is more fun-loving, and is because of Brian. Not many can do vides me with a healthy creative out- B Erianna  and contemporary.”
E: gest four Shakespeare plays at once the king.” an older Shakespearean role like that. let that allows me to forget about y FEATURESEDITOR Q: Do you play any sports?
vfmight be brt- academia A: “I might start playing soc-
 ing off a little for a few It takes aspecial kind of per-
 more than you hours,” he son to be able to, at 18 years of
E-gcan chew. said. age, go to another country
 Orson Welles This will whose language he did not
i begged to dif- not just be even know, work his way
 fer, creating any perfor— through college, and makealife
7;; Chimes at mance for for hirnselfthere. Junior Manuel
?- Midnight, a him, how— Alfredo Freireisjustsuchaper-
I, mix and adap- ever. This son.
: tation of four p e r f o r — BominVenezuelaonNov. 20,
lrshakespeare mance will 1973, Freire moved from San
llplays and a be unique, CristobaltoChicagoin 1992.
Eihistory of En- as he said, “My father got his MBA at
Iigland. Wash— “It is the Wharton School in Pennsylva- _-..,,
ifington and ﬁrst time I nia,” Freire said. “He used to Ph°‘° °°""°5y Ma""°' F'°i'°
;;Lee Univer- will ever talk a lot about the importance of cer next semester.”
5: sity Professor wear a mul— getting an education in the United Q: When you were little, what
E1TJ.D. Martinez let haircut States.” did you want to be when you
{has since on stage, All this talk must have had grew up?
fiadapted the and also the some inﬂuence on Freire, because A: “I used to think about planes
I:play into a first time he came to the United States and a lot. I drew planes, built some
iistage produc- thatIwillap- began his education in English at planes with Lego and collected
;?tion that will pear nude. Harper College in Palatine, Ill., models to scale. Maybelwanted
ijopen on Fri- The audi- where he attended college for two to be a F-16 Air Force pilot or a
fgday, Feb. 4: ence gets semesters. This was an intensive 747 commercial pilot, or I just
52 F alstaﬂ the rear English as a second language pro— wanted to travel a lot.”
 Falstaff is view.” gram. After completing the pro— Q: What is your favorite Ameri-
iwhat has been T h e gram, Freire decided that he liked can food?
frcalled a show defi— life in America, and decided to stay. A: “An American meal I like is
'-“quirky, arro- Prwro counesy rr). Mmrm nitely prom- He attended Northern Illinois New England Clam Chowder with
gant adapta- _ , _ _ _ _ _ ises some University in Dekalb, Ill., for three Conch fritters from the FloridaKeys
tion of several M'cah Tolman (left’ as Hotspur) and Francis Mcwllllams Ought’ as Prince Henry) battle In Falstaff’ action/ad- semesters. He then went to get his andNew York style cheesecake for
0 f the stage adaptation of Orson Welles’ Chimes at Midnight. This Shakespeare adaptation opens Verrrure and AA degree rrr Liberal Arrs rrr desserrr probably a Robert
Shakespeare’s Friday, Feb- 4 and runs through Feb- 7 in the Lenfest Centen great com— Truman College inChicago, inad- Mondavi 1997 FuméBlanc Reserve
plays.” It runs edy. Tolman dition to managing six shops for wine from Napa Valley is good to
through the life of Falstaff and tells The play cannot be totally classi— When Brian came along, I thought, cited his favorite scenes as a Duty Free International at O’Hare accompanyameal like this.”

Q: What,is your favorite food
overall?

A: “I love to eat and to cook,
and in 1992, I worked as a Pastry
Chef at Le Francais, a French res-
taurant in Wheeling, Illinois. I also
helped to write restaurants re-
views during my internship at
Pride Magazine last Spring. . . I
cook everyday and I can cook a
little of everything . . . I have
learned to appreciate different
types of cuisine and I do not re-
ally have a speciﬁc type of food I
prefer over others.”

Q: What is the biggest differ-
ence between Venezuela and the
U.S.?

A: “The biggest difference
right now between life in the
U.S. and in Venezuela is that
Venezuela’s democratic system
is endangered under the gover-
nance of populist President

Ks‘-

 

   , _ I . . . ter graduation? (paratrooper, as well) Hugo
  * ’ * t ' ‘‘ I ' I ' r r “Tha1- is A: “I want to be ready to go Chavez who dissolved the Con-
  4 . ,‘ , ~ g ‘ .. 72.:   r 1 I  ,_ , back to work for a magazine and gress, and rewrote the constitu-
“H _  V; 7: r  ‘ ~   I I 3300 P-mv ‘ L€Ct‘~11'e¥W¢nd}’ Sha1ilsauth.0T0f“A4 one rehable eventuallylwantto startmyown.” tion. Cuba’s President Fidel
I 6 . A t ' I  7 . Remm *0 Modesty-3’ Lee Ch_3P33- , P I w  n d S O C k " Q: What is your favorite show? Castro is a close friend of Presi-
, Booksigningand reception.  ' A: “Michael Moore’s ‘The dent Chavez.”
 di3t°1Yf°11°Win33tﬂ1€AlI1l_1lni ..:f75*. ' G°V- Frank Awful Truth.’ llike his straightfor- Currently, Freire is enjoying his
House.   , . Keg-ﬁng  wardhintervievir/ing stylerr The  [frrrere and tiwgependent life in
sues e presen s are con oversia erica, a .
Thursday, Feb. 3  »  e .
7:00 pm. Basketball (W)."W&L-‘vs. ,   
Bridgewater College. Warner Center.
Friday, Feb. 4.  I   .      
I , 7:30 p.m. Film Society. “AmisIad”*(USA,—. . r
Monday’ Jan. 31 V lf998r)),crlrirectéd by iteven Spielberg. . The R] ng—tum
8:00 p.m. ConcertGuild Barbaraand Gerhardt Sm TS“: §:fr.eS‘"f‘F':rr;r5rr,. Ada red Phi is looking for
Suhrstedts, piano duettists. Johnson ' pm‘ :2, ectedb ‘JD Marrrnéz rgerrer _ _ _
Theatre, LenfestCenter. Forreservations ,2;%ear11_r:Lenfe3/Stbénter . r ‘ r gnthuslastlc Wr1t_
calltheBoxOfﬁceat463-8000. _ . ’ ' ' ' . . .
.. 8:00 p.m. Lip Sync Contest. Sponsored by, ers to J Orn rts Staff
SARAH (Students Against r .
Tuesday, Feb. 1 . . Rockbridge Area Hunger)to beneﬁt.  and Contribute
:7'.00 p.m.i Basketball (W). W&L vs.Randolph- local food pantries. Student ActiVi~ .
V  Macon Women'sCollege.Wame_r’ ~'~ ties Pavilion.”  I . s   weekly: WI‘1t€I'S
.  "Center. ‘ t d f S
'7:00p.m. ,ContactLecture.“Panden'ngtoFeai“. the 4 Saturday, Feb. 5 .   r Wan e or new 9
‘ , Media's Crisis Mentality,” John Stossel, 1:00 _m_ 0 re BrbadeaSr_§sL‘a'Traviara,.b r .
V _ _ ; ABCNews.LeeChapel. r p Vavr/LUR_FM(91:_5)‘  r r ‘y Sports’ features’
7=30iun- .Winter_2000 P01iti°SFi1mf8S*-“La 3:00 p.m. Basketball (M), W&L ivs.iEastern opinions, and hu-
. . : Traviata” (1986) directed by Franco Mennonite University wamer .
Ziﬁirelli.Thre‘e-act operainltalianwith center‘-_ . 7 L p 11101‘!  New ldeas
. .  ’ I English Subﬁﬂeskoom Zzllcschoot 7:30 p.m. International PerforrningArts Series. V r
8:00-pan. “Concert Guild. Barbara and Gerhardt Kbae chi Ensemb1epre5en¢3 » are always W6 '
 - . . . ’Suhrstedts, piano duettists. Johnson e1assiea1mu5i¢ofviemam,Lee
, ’ Theatre, LenfestCenter. . chapel, « , , ‘  I Come: too‘
_  rt . . . 7:30 pan. Film Society. “Amistad.” Trouba- , ' 6 art Of
, Wednesday, Feb. 2 , dour Cinema. ~ C°m_e b p h_
7:30p.m. ' Wrestling. W&L vs. Southern Virginia 8:00 pm. Theatre Series. “Falstaﬁ‘.” Keller the Rmg—tum  1 .__r V
I » L 2 ”C9"°g°'Wm“°'.9°“t7" .. 10'30pm ;hsf9:ilrfi=liji:.nfestCenter' \ team! For more In" An Orson Welles’ Adaptation of Shakespeare
7:30p.m. Wmter2000PolincsFihnfesL La : ' ' V. . . C arm S. achr formation can the
A “ ' Traviata”(1986)directedby Franco “°30p‘m' "Elma ~° on’ ‘gm ' ’  b 4 5 7 20 O O: .,, 8 '4
A ‘ ' ”Zet’frrel1i.R"oom22l,C-School. , _ ofﬁce at 462-4060, ' r r * » '3 - '“ - _
8:00p.m., I ConcertGuild.~BarbaraandGerhardt, 5Und0Y. Feb° 6 V ‘  and let our Voice be  - 6,  ° 2. [)-l”l”| - ‘in: mm
’   Suhrstedts, piano duettists. ' 2:00 p.m. Theatre Series. “Falstaff.” Keller y K r  _ Tr t _ Q .  _ f N t C . ._
, Johnson Theatre, Lenfest Center Th6afr6,LeIlf€St Cenfelﬁ heard! (I: O‘. ‘ ’ ’ 1 Ca ' C ( ' 1 ( I S '( " 1 LO ' _ ,
Directed by J. D. Martinez

 

 

 

@112 iﬁittg-tum lﬂhi

rum SPORTS ,.

Generals’ effort to humble Hampden-Sydney falls short

ByMike Weil . .  .  .  _

STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee Generals treated a rare packed
Warner center to a commendable effort on Wednesday,
but fell short against the nationally top-ranked Hampden-
Sydney, 56-49.

The number one ranked squad in Division III basketball
sprinted out to a 17-3 lead, but the Generals would not be
deterred. They chipped and clawed their way back into the
contest, going into the locker room down by only ﬁve at
the half, 28-23.

W&L kept this momentum up in the second half as they
continued to cut into the deﬁcit. They climbed all the way
back with 7:51 remaining, tying the game at 41.

A questionable 10 seconds call crushed the Generals
momentum however, as the Tigers begam to pull away.

W&L had one last run in them cutting the Hampden-
Sydney lead to three with 28 seconds to play. The Tigers
would go on to make their free throws down the stretch for
a seven-point victory.

The Generals were led by freshman Toussaint
Crawford, who totaled 12 points on 5-7 shooting. Crawford
has displayed true star potential this season, hitting big
shots in the big games and emerging as a leader on the

   
 

 

C0ll1'lI.

Senior Brian Ricketts added eight points and nine boards

for W&L.

The Generals’ outstanding defense performed well,
holding the Tigers to a season-low 33 percent shooting
from the ﬂoor, and only 56 points, also a season-low.

“Defense was the reason we were able to hang with this
team,” said Crawford. “Defense was the most important

thing for us.”

An unsung hero for the Generals was their sixth man on
the court, the crowd. For the first time all season, General
fans came out in huge numbers, helping generate uncom-

mon electricity in the Warner center.

“The crowd was great,” said Crawford. “Playing in front
of that crowd was probably the best sports moment I’ve

ever had.”

This crowd prompted Coach Jeff Lafave to write a carn-
pus e-mail thanking the student body for their support and
encouraging them to lend the same support for future

' ODAC match-ups.

After the defeat the Genrals’ record moved to 5-10, 4-8 in the
ODAC, while I-lampden-Sydney remained unbeaten at 17-0.

W&L faced Villa Julie on Sunday in the Warner Center
and came out on top, 80-69. The Generals used a season-
high 50 percent shooting from the ﬁeld and went 10 of 15
from three-point range to garner the victory.

W&L hits the road again Wednesday to face
Shenandoah. Tip-off is set for 7:30 p.m.

 

Women’s basketball
splits two contests

Miller tops W&L’s all-time scoring mark

By Robert Turner

STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee’s women’s
basketball team endured another week
of mixed results in ODAC competition,
defeating Lynchburg on Thursday 61-
60 before falling to Guilford on Satur-
day 70-55.

The Generals traveled to Lynchburg
on Thursday and returned with a vic-
tory by the smallest of margins. After
shoting 51.9 percent in the ﬁrst half,
W&L went into the locker room with a
commanding 36-17 lead.

Lynchburg fought back hard to be-

‘’ gin the second half. They battled back
 iv to a ﬁve point advantage, 58-53, with

only three minutes left in regulation.

With ﬁve seconds left senior guard

  Jessica Morton went to the line with
 ' the score still notched at 60, and she
_. made one of two free throws to give
, the Generals the important conference
 _A victory.

The close ﬁnish was not the only

'; drama of the game, as W&L senior
 Ansley Miller scored eleven points to
"  increases her career total to 1084

Senior Chad Casto, and juniors

 Josh Chamberlain and John Sensing
ii" each tallied 3-0 records in leading the

. Washington and Lee wrestling team

, , to a 1-2 record at the Western Mary-
 land Quadrangular on Saturday
«,  evening in Westminster, Md.

W&L (3-3, 2-2 Centennial) began

 the evening with a narrow 21-16 loss
if * to Ursinus College. The Generals

 quickly rebounded, however, claiming

Cf decisive 42-6 victory over

§

_ W&L then went on a small run of

 :1 their own. Sophomore forward Jessica
‘  Mentz was able to tie the score at 60
 with a layup.

points. That effort put Miller over the
top and broke W&L’s all-time scoring
mark previously held by Chrissy
Burghardt.

Miller, through it all, still want the
focus on the team.

“It’s exciting to be a part of a pro-
gram that has grown so much and to
be in the record books,” she said.

“The season can go in any direc-
tion from this point, and we need to
focus on making the climb back up.”

After their exciting win Thursday
the Generals traveled to Greensboro
Saturday to take on ODAC rival
Guilford. W&L again came out strong
in the first half to take a 33-30 halftime
lead on 52.4 percent shooting.

The game remained close in the
second half, and hte Generals trailed
51-48 with little over seven minutes
leﬁin the game. Guilford then went on
a 10-0 run, effectively closing out the
previously tight contest.

W&L now maintains an overall record
of 9-7 and an even 6-6 in the ODAC.

The Generals host Randolph-Ma-
con Women’s College next Tuesday.
The match-up will be the third in a sting
of ten ODAC regular season games.
W&L has already faced R—MWC once
this season and gained one of their
most convincing road wins, 69-44.

hr Wrestling goes 1-2 at
‘J Western Maryland

Swarthmore. The match was high-
lighted by pin by Sensing in the 285-
pound classiﬁcation.

Following the win over
Swarthmore, W&L suffered a 27-12
loss to the host Green Terror.

Other Generals claiming victories in
contested matches were junior Greg
Valentine, sophomore Ezra Morse, and
freshmen John Polena and Ericson
Davis.

—Courtesy of Sports Information

Photo by David Hanson/Assistant Photo Editor

    
  

 

Photo by Tiffany Fnedel/Assistant Photo Editor

ABOVE: Freshman Toussaint Crawford lays another one in for
two against Hampden-Sydney. Crawford’s leadership and
athletism have already made him a standout on the court. He
led the team with 12 points.

ABOVE LEFT: Senior center Brian Ricketts plows through the
Tiger’s defense. Ricketts posted eight points and nine
rebounds for the W&L’s cause against Hampden-Sydney.

LEFT: A huge crowd of W&L basketball fans turned out to see
the Generals take on the number one ranked Tigers. Coach
Jeff Lafave and the rest of the Generals were appreciative of
the turnout and support and hopes that the crowds will
continue to come out and rally for W&L in future conference _
games.

 

Photo by Tiffany Fnedel/Assistant Photo Editor

You are invited to attend the

Internship
& Job Fair

February 3, 2000

11 a.m.-2 p.m.
Science Center

Summer opportunities in industries like
arConsu|ting s.4rBusiness»:trSciencew:#.r
at Public Relations it N0n—pr0fit7£*?
i*:>|nternationa|»:t>Campsw:r

w.\si u.\(:'m\ .\\n I ,i=.r«. l =.\'l\'IaI«sI FY

ERVICES

 

ﬁ o
cu ° 3‘
en E‘ E
E 0 Q
N c 0
PAGE 6 E E '6 JANUARY 31, 2000 h
R I It I t’ f IA ' t
ea [)0 1 ICE! par 16S 01‘ 1'63 IIl€I‘lCaIl V0 BPS _
By Kevin MCManemin Leno With an 0Jjoke..lt’s going to be debt as one of the greatest problems In general, though, I was very tory clearly shows that Gore is eithera It is with that noble goal in mind
SHAMEBASED MAN a long, tedious campaign if they don’t of our age and somehow managed to proud of the Republican party. They blatant liar ora complete idiot. that I present the following parties,
ﬁnd something else to make fun of him blame Bill Clinton for it. Huh? Either obviously studied the election of ‘92 so, 1 wish the Republicans hick in none of which receive any attention
Wow, that Mock Con was some- for -—and quickly. the fonner Secretaiy of Education ain’t closely and learned how to make the the upcoming campaign, yet, at the from the “mainstream” media. Their ,
thing else, huh? What was it — seven My other favorite thing about the too good at math, or he conveniently vice president of the United States look same time, I’m a bit sick of the simplic- ideas may strike you as “crazy,” but
or eight speakers in a row that all felt Convention was how each skipped the chapters in history that likean utter and complete jackass. Gore ity of our us vs. them two party sys- just remember that 225 years ago some
the need to mention Al Gore’s bone- Republikaner praised Reagan as pretty clearly show that the national deﬁcit got the full Quayle treatment —— and tem. Think of how many more candi- guys had a “crazy” little idea called
headed “I invented the Internet” much the greatest leader since and national debt ballooned under this time it’s fully deserved. AlGore’s dates there would be to make fun ofif freedom,and they formed the greatest
quote? Thanks, fellas, for running that Alexander the Great and then Bill Ronald Reagan like Clinton’s waistline quote that Bill Clinton is one of the the polls reﬂected the true diversity of nation the world has ever scene. De- 0?
line into the ground faster than Jay Bennett went on to lament the national at an all-you-can-eat buffet. greatest Presidents in American his— opinions and values in America! spite Texas.
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII // I ’/I / 1111111111 ogooooooooooogoogo
u I ' res /«rug I /J/((19/.s'« (I) 10- o , ‘ fr 0
:   ET :    Vtru lent e/yon.93/-o(ro4(/({yt/I1tasv7- :   I : 7 4 : ‘
. . !M»1.Sﬂ«1't‘l3[t1't7}J£ < < t I . 1-99," for M, .
u p ar |  t code duo (1/«e-/‘err/(/y/.s'(;//-1 | n a  | , y 9 .
: lj : p Y F ﬁfty co/z.s'¢j()u.s'» (15011//1'///Stu-(/n I v I : ﬂ0'"’l¢O' pﬂ  :
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII L———————-—-il oooooooooooooooooo
Nominee: “Herb Man” Nominee: Dr. LaTeisha Hembree- Nominee: none of your business Nominee: Bryson Shaw Nominee: Preston S. Davidson IV Nominee: Candice Henson g 9'
Platform: Marijuana is, like, illegal Miller, University of Oregon Platform: It is estimated that there Platform: Now, hey, come on. I’ll Platform: Whooooo! Frat party! Platform: If you’re a young girl be-
in this country, and we in the Stoner Abstract: The purpose of this ar- are currently six billion people living admit that] loved “Rent.” Who didn’t? Ladies and gentlemen, I stand be- tween the ages of 9-14, Tigerbeat
Party totally think that blows. If ticle is to prove that the country on the planet earth — for us in the It’sjustagreat show with greatmusic fore you today to unveilthe fratparty’s magazine is putting together atotally
elected, we promise to make marijuana would bebesz governed by a commit- virulent misanthrope party, that’s —- and I don’t see why in this society two—point plan to American prosper- awesome political party just for ),
non-illegal by 2005, or 2007, or, like, as tee of learned college professors. about 5,999,999,997 too many. I can’t enjoy a great show without be- ity. By the twin cornerstones of drink- you! ! ! !!
soon as we get around to it. Platform: As the paradigms of rep- Currently the mainstream parties ing labelled “gay” by my friends and ing and hazing, we hope to fully ini- We’re totally committed to, like, a
Our opponents say that marijuana resentative democracy have shifted are debating various proposed gun colleagues. tiate all Americans into prosperity and lot of real serious issues that way af-
rots the brain and saps the energy from greatly since its inception in the days control measures. Well to gun control As the nominee for President for happiness. fect our lives.
smokers, but We heartily disagree. We of Pericles and the Greeks, nonethe- supporters we propose this simple the straight guys who enjoy Broad- Currently our nation is plagued Issues such as: CUTE BOYS!!!! ‘I’
think that marijuana is a thing Which less, history has shown that the stron- truth: guns don’t kill People; heroes way musicals but are really self-con- with a crop of lazy,_good-for-nothing We’re the only major party committed
can be used in a manner in Which the gest democracies are those built upon kill people. scious about it party, I’d just like to immigrants. That’s because the U.S. is to putting our national resources to-
case is that. . - damn, Where Was l go- aﬁnn foundation of lecturing and pub- Furthermore, We not only support point out that I have a steady girl— too easy on them. Our belief is, if you ward the conservation of our nation’s
ing With this? Oh, like, marijuana is lishing. (Sorensen, 1997) As a Woman’s right to Choose an abor- friend. Her name is Erin, we’ve been want to become an American, you’ll mostprecious resource: BOY BANDS! V
totally. . . uh. . . ha ha ha ha, Oh man, Thucydides noted, “q’Q'Zol'JZo' ", X, tion — We heartily endorse it. The dating for 16 great months, and yes, have to earn it. Through a rigorous N’Sync and Backstreet Boys will re-
I’m totally making an ass up myself ’Y W079, "YQ’Q'.” government should provide incentives fellas, we have had frequent sex. That regiment of immigrant hazing, we can place those old fogeys on the Supreme
here, dude. llike, lhad this Speech all Although the media portrays all for Women Who bravely Choose to doesn’t sound very gay to me, does insure that only those who truly de— Court if we are elected.
Worked out last night While Todd and academics as stuffy and boring, keep this mind-numbingly stupid de— it? serve to be initiated Americans will Besides conservation of domestic
I Were Watching “The Matrix,” (that (Fleming, l99l)the aggregate data has generate race of human beings from I’ve never looked at another guy make the cut. Give us your tired, your hunks, our foreign policy is totally it
movie is SO TOTALLY F***ED UP yet to fully support that conclusion, further crowding the planet with their and thought he was attractive —— hon- poor, your hungry. . . and we’ll beat geared towards bringing foreign studs
when you’re high!) really, but, ha ha According to Dr. Henry P. ﬁlthy chromosomes. Forced castration estly. Well, I mean, I can tell the differ- the hell out of them. like RICKY MARTIN and ENRIQUE
ha ha. . . Lesserman’s 1994 study, only 58 per- for sex offenders is a good start, but ence between ugly guys and good- Our ﬂrst priority, however, must be IGLESIAS to America!!!!! If they don’t
Oh yeah! We’ve got other platfonns cent of academics are described by we must build on this. How about looking guys, I mean, what women the future of America: the children. want to come, we’ll send way hotma-
too in the Stoner Party. We’re notjust colleagues as “insufferably dull and dumping birth control pills in the wa- would think isthe difference, because Under the current tyrannical system rines (boys in uniform are sooooo T
about primo bud for all ages. Like, boring,” while 27 percent are de— ter supply? I don’t think they’re good looking of government, only those2l years of cute!) to invade any country that re-
we’re totally for government subsidies scribed as “very boring,” Most inter- Health care and Social Security? myself. Not at all. Really. , age and older are allowed to enjoy the fuses to ship its hottest hunks to
for Doritos and Slim Jims and Phish estingly, the study found that fully Hey, we’ve read Darwin, and we know Look, I’m getting a bit off the sub- life-affirming joy that alcohol provides. America.
bootlegs. If elected President, I hope 6.54 percent of academics are de— that keeping alive the weak and the ject here. The platform of our party is If the frat party is elected, we promise Tigerbeat's Totally for girls politi— -3
to have in every car cassette deck in scribed by others as “not too terribly elderly just ain’t the way of nature. simple: we believe that guys should to drop the legal drinking age to four- cal party!!! is not just about hunks,
Americaabootleg copy of Phish’s epic boring.” (Lesserman, 1994) Midnight basketball for inner-city be able to walk out of “Les Mis” or and-a-half.All Americans will soon be though. We’re also about girl power
-lan. l6, 1999 Boulder, Colorado Show Clearly the data supports the un- youth? We think midnight 1’unning- “Miss Saigon” or even “Kiss of the able to enjoy the freedom to numb the and stuff. With us in charge, expect
(including the 45-minute long im- derlying conclusion that, contrary to into-traffic Would keep more kids out Spider Woman” with their heads held mind that it is our God-given right - way-inspirational leadership from awe-
proved jam of “Tweezer” and Trey popular belief, not all academics are of gangs. high and their wrists hanging reso- nay —~ our duty to uphold! some cabinet members like Britney V
Anastasio’s ﬁne wah—pedal work on horribly dull pointyheads incapable of Vote the virulent misanthrope party lutely non-limp at their sides. We in- Our founding fathers from Sam Spears and Christina Aguilera!
what many consider the deﬁnitive live providing inspiring leadership to the When you go into the voting booths tend to support Broadway with tax Adams to George Killian knew what it So get out there and get involved!
Version 0f“l’eaCheS En Regalia”). masses. Ergo, logically speaking, an next election. We’re at least honest dollars, to foster the “Lion King”s and meant to be Americans. Uphold their Show the world what girl power is all
So as you can see, we, like. . . oh academic would vis-a—vis in fact have enough to admit that we’re only look- “Cabaret”s of tomorrow. legacy by voting the frat party to about and help elect the coolest, hip- ’
crap, gotta run, Scooby’s on. (continued on pages 17-456) ing to screw you. But I’m not gay. Really. Honestly! power. Whoooo! Frat party rules! pest government ever! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !!
0 0, 0 0
Wherefor be it resolved on this, the twenty-ninth day of January in the year of our Lord 2000, g‘-t P S P   p 
that the student body at Washington and Lee University did convene for a mock-convention, and I
being ﬁlled with political zeal, they did draw up a new Bill of Rights with which they agreed to be ' _ was by those brave asterisks.
governed, overthrowing the shackles of tyranny from an oppressive regime, and rededicating  a    . . . Alright, had enough sarcasm for today? Good. Let’s
the school to the principles of student self-governance and personal responsibility on which get d0W" to business-
Washingmn and Lee was once founded By Kevin MCManemin . Putting asterisks in the place of the ﬁnal letters of a blue “
A4/1 LC0 NTENT [N THE MDDLE word is not only patently ridiculous, but in a college paper
it only makes us look as if staffed by a bunch of geekish
amznhmznt 1 Last week Taylor Ruilova said “sh**” in his article in prudes. There are no children to “protect” — there are
Cilhz ahminiatratinn ﬁhall makz nu lama infringing an ti]: ﬁghtﬁ [If the ﬁtuhzntﬁ 11] The Phi. And you know, I’ve spent every waking moment only college students who know exactly what these words
since then trying to ﬁgure out just what the f“‘** he meant. mean and who use them every single day. The “vulgar” st

hunt kegs in thcir frathouscs.

message is still being communicated just ﬁne. The aster-
isks only thoroughly embarrass us.

No, no, no, no, they argue, you misunderstand, as is
common with vulgar primates such as yourself. The aster-
isks do not make us look ridiculous —— they make the paper
look classy by upholding common decency.

Well, I submit that in an era when the common man uses
these “bad words” commonly, that is the new common
decency. Censoring words that almost everybody uses ,,
only serves to uphold some outmoded, prudish, nonsen-
sical notion of acceptable speech. Just as we don’t hold
ourselves to old notions of fashion or conduct, why should
we hold ourselves to ancient notions of speech?

Please take a second to e—mail The Phi with a simple yet I
brutally direct message: f“‘** this asterisk bu"‘*sh**.

I mean, hell, was Taylor saying “shot,” or “shop,” or “ship,”
or “shod, or “shed?” Damn it, I want to know!

Then it hit me — “it” being The Phi’s copy editor for my
using the words “damn it” in this article. But as I regained
consciousness on the cold ﬂoor of the Phi ofﬁce, I sud-
denly realized what Taylor was saying — he was actually
trying to say a word that some people might think is a
naughty combination of four letters used to denote fecal
matter, but. . . don’t worry folks. . . THANK SWEET JESUS
CHRIST that our editors rushed in just in time to save the
readers from enduring Ruilova’s onslaught of ﬁlth.

Thank God that those asterisks were placed where those
two naughty letters would have gone! Another genera-
tion of impressionable W&L youth was left in the dark
about what Taylor was really trying to say, confused as I

uutznhtncnt Z
ﬁtuhcnts have the right to sag whatever than bloohg 1lI2ll fccl like without being
subizcteh to persecution bit the or. thought police.

I

umzuhmznt 3
Ertuhcnts hum: thc right to at fair trial; not the right to be railronhch out of school
for sharing gout mznlnlun iust because the iE.(!I. urns borch that mouth.

amznhmcnt 4
Eh: stuhznt boot; has the right to have at bunh they uctunllg likt plug for ZEE.

umcnhmznt 5
Eznurc shall not be uses by faculty members as an excuse for sloth unit
incompetence (unit non know who gnu are).

THE OFFICE or SPECIAL »
PROGRAMS HAS SUMMER JOBS

AVAILABLE FOR W&L STUDENTS.
amcnhmznt E

Eh: official mascot of the school is herzbg changes from “the Ecncrul" to "Ehé

Alumni College — Resident Assistants
$33.13.-hriuin’-Ecam-s1oilliu'-ﬁouthzrn-animal."

Five Resident Assistants will spend six weeks
meeting and assisting Alumni, professors, and
other interesting friends of W&L during Alumni )\
College. Responsibilities are varied and include
attending meals and other activities with guests,
transportation of guests, and maintaining rooms
in Gaines Hall. Employment is from June 13 - 3
Aug. 4, 2000 and includes room, board, and tips
in addition to salary. Application deadline is Feb.
28, 2000. For information call 463-8723.

amcuhmznt 7
Eruel nun unusual punishments will onlg be uhministcrzh outing the Designates
nlchgcshin nzrioh anh bn fullg trainch nun qunliftzh ulcogzmnsters.

» amzuhmzut B
Eh: next time E&® tries charging at frnthouse $411 for moving 8 chair from the
thirh floor to the first ﬂoor. they will hone their legs broken as the mob extortion

ruckzmrs 2 are.
ﬂl Q Summer Scholars — Counselors

Summer Scholars is a four-week academic
program for rising high school seniors.
Counselors serve as resident advisors for 10 y

amcuhmzut H
Eherc is NOD umznhmznt B!

nmznhmznt 111
Ehut all rights not given to the nitministrution are rzscruch big the stuhznts uuh
thzir nlcitgzs, rcsnectiuzlg.

“I can ’t wait to work for
Special Programs when I
grow up and go to W&L”

-—Raina Milling ’14

students in Graham-Lees dormitory and plan
evening and weekend activities. Employment is
from June 28 - July 30, 2000. Application
deadline is Feb. 21, 2000. For further
information call 463-8722.

