0' U112 iii

A

VOLUME 101, NO..»21'

From Lexington to Maui, thousands of students, faculty and alumni will celebrate as...

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

ng-tum Iﬂhi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

MONDAY, APRIL 26, 1999

W&L’s 250*“ year ends with a b

By Polly Doig

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

The culmination of two and a half
centuries of learning, honor and lead-
ership (not to mention khakis, cock-
tail parties and debauchery) is ﬁnally
upon us.

And the banners are back up on

the Colonnade, just in case you’d for-
gotten about it.

The May I National Day of Cel-
ebration will bring an estimated 10,000
students, faculty and alumni together
in spirit (though not in location) to
commemorate Washington and Lee
University’s 250th birthday. A satel-
lite downlink will be beamed to 54 sites
across the nation, from twojumbotron
screens in the tents at the ruins, to
the alumni chapter in Maui, to Spago’s
in Hollywood.

The national satellite broadcast
will begin at 8:30 p.m., and will last
approximately 70 minutes. The show
yvill include segments from the 250th
video, which has been a year and
$180,000 in the making. In addition,
live segments will be interspersed

- from the Lenfest Center, where His-
tory Channel anchor Roger Mudd ’51
and WPVI-TV morning weather an-
chor and reporter Cecily Tynan Bad-
ger ’91 will be co~hosting the show.

The gala itselfwill begin at 6 p.m.,
though students will not be admitted
at the ruins until 7:30 p.m., and will
last until 12:30 a.m. Throughout the
evening, three bands will play at the
ruins, including the swing music of
The Bo Thorpe Orchestra, and 50s’ -
90s’ cover bands Spectrum and

Casper. A cash bar and elegant buf-
fet will also be available.

“They’re serving every possible
food you can imagine — from ostrich
to tortellini,” director of the 250th ob-
servance Neil Penick said.

Organizers are expecting roughly
2,000 people, mainly alumni and their
families, to roll into town for the event.

“By counting the alumni across
the country, we think this will be the
largest alumni gathering ever,” Penick
said, “[with] over 10,000 alumni cel-
ebrating the 250th at once.”

An additional 1,000 students and
faculty are expected, bringing the an-
ticipated grand total to 3,000 people
under the tents at the ruins. Three
enormous tents, covering nearly
90,000 square feet, are being set up
on the athletic fields near the ruins to
handle the crowds.

The cost of tickets for students is
$30 per person, a huge discount off
the normal price of $125, according
to Penick.

“We want students to participate
fully in this grand ﬁnale of the 250th
Anniversary celebration,” Penick
said. _

Ticket sales to students are sub-
stantially behind what organizers ex-
pected, however, as only roughly 250
have been sold thus far. Sentiment
about the gala is mixed among stu-
dents.

Freshman Abby Montgomery
plans on going, though curiosity
seems to b her main motivation.

“I’m pretty sure I’m going to go

SEE ‘GALA’ ON PAGE 2

Students ‘dig’ into
Earth Day concert

I

By Lisa Lin

STAFF WRITER

Bluegrass, reggae and organic soil
capped off a week of Earth Day cel-
ebrations.

Starting last Tuesday, April 20, the
Outing Club sponsored an eclectic
series of events that included every-
thing from a reading of nature poems
at the Ruse to a culminating concert at
Davidson Park featuring the Larry Keel
Experience and Guano Boys.

On Thursday, Larry Keel and the
Guano Boys began performing in
Davidson Park at 3:00 p.m. and de-
lighted a slowly mounting crowd with
their music for about four and a half
hours.

“It’s so exciting to see the commu-
nity come together to celebrate such
an important holiday for the future of
pur planet,” freshman Helen Downes
said about the tumout.

Sophomore Susan Slim agreed.

“The general atmosphere was very
enjoyable-it was a great cause,” Slim

said “It was a good idea, and it very
refreshing to see so many people from
the Lexington community involved. I
hope next year they do it again.”

In addition to the music, several
booths were set up next to the park,
each representing a local group or a
national organization with common
environmental goals. Among the dis-
plays were several local farmers offer-
ing “organic soil,” the US Forest Ser-
vice with informative guides, and the
Lexington Healthy Food store with
vegetarian snacks.

Among other events was a reading
of professor of English Chris Camuto’s
poems. He found inspiration for most
of his pieces from his experiences in
the Smokey Mountains and the Blue
Ridge Mountains. After reading, he
also gave the audience tips on out-
door writing and journal keeping.

The club also planned a hike on
Saturday to the Lexington Reservoir,
a natural site which is currently in dan-
ger of becoming part of a development
project.

Photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Editor

Workers erected three giant tents near the Ruins last week in preparation for the grand ﬁnale of the 250th Celebration. Now
Reunion Weekend will have a circus feel.

Alexander to kick Mock Con off

Presidential candidate will give keynote address Wednesday for Spring Kickoff

By Polly Doig

EXECUTI VE EDITOR

Twenty years ago, Lamar
Alexander hiked more than 1,000
miles across Tennessee in his quest
for that state’s gubernatorial post.

This week, in his new quest for
the presidency, Alexander will stop
off in Lexington as the keynote
speaker for Washington and Lee
University’s Mock Convention
Spring Kickoff.

The former Tenn. governor, and
former U.S. Secretary of Education
will speak Wednesday at 2 p.m. in
front ofLee Chapel.

. ~ 5.2-‘
photo by Emily Barrie

s/Photo Editor

MEMBERS OF THE WINNING TEAM — Kappa Alpha Theta sisters Anna Lowden ‘99 and Heather
Shepard ‘00 join in a Tug O’ War competition during Sigma Chi’s Derby Days, held last week.

“We expect to see a great turnout
of Washington and Lee students, the
southern Virginia community, na-
tional media and alumni from around
the country for this enthusiastic and
educational week,” Mock Con politi-
cal chairman David Dardis said. “The
alumni, faculty and student body are
excited about hosting Lamar
Alexander  one of the top contend-
ers for the Republican presidential
nomination.”

Alexander is widely regarded for
his stances on education, the envi-
ronment and economic development,
as well as for his informal campaign
style.

In addition to Alexander’s
speech, Spring Kickoff will also in-
clude two star-studded panels, and
country singer Willie Nelson, who
will perform Wednesday at 8 p.m. in
the Student Pavilion. Tickets for the
Nelson concert are currently avail-
able and cost $15 for students and
$20 for the general public.

The Presidential Issues Forum
will gather together some of the
country’s top conservative
policymakers in Lee Chapel, Mon-
day evening at 8. The Forum will

feature Republican pollster Whit
Ayres; Terry Jeffrey, editor of Hu-
man Events; Barbara Ledeen, execu-
tive director of the Independent
Women’s Forum; Tod Lindberg,
former editor of The Washington
Times; and chairman ofthe Repub-
lican Leadership Council Mark
Miller.

Some Ofthe nation’s most promi-
nent journalists and political com-
mentators will take part in Mock
Con’s Media Panel Tuesday at 8 p.m.
in Lee Chapel. Participants include
Jim Barnes, chief political correspon-
dent for the National Journal; Charlie
Cook, Ofthe Cook Political Report;

Howard Fineman, chief political cor-
respondentfor Newsweek; Tom

Lamar Alexander

Mattesky, deputy Washington bu-
reau chief for CBS News; Joseph

McQuaid, editor-in-chiefof
the Manchester Union
Leader; and Bill Schneider,
senior political analyst for
CNN.

In addition, several na-
tional media organizations,
including The Washington
Post, CNN, C-SPAN and
MSNBC, have been invited
to cover the kickoff of what
is considered the nation’s
most accurate mock conven-
tion.

W&L’s Mock Con boasts
an incredible 92 percent pre-
diction rate, and has been
correct during 1 I out of the
last 12 conventions. Mock
Con will be held on March 3
and 4, 2000.

CJITP Ring-tum iﬂht

April 26, 1999

OPINION:

Alums reminisce and reprimand

W&LIFE:

Student/ faculty achievers

SPORTS:
ODAC Triple Crowns

LAST WORD:

McManemin takes on Trenchcoats

PAGE 3

PAGES 4-5

PAGES 6-7

PAGE 8

  

 

I
I .
/.,,

PAGE2
4!!‘

THE SHOW
continued from page

check it out,” Montgomery said, “just
to see what it’s like.”

For others, factors like money and
the crowd that will gather will help
make their decisions.

“Actually, I haven’t really thought
about it,” freshman Joey Ajayi said.
“Ifit’sjust going to be a large number
of alumni, I’m not going to go because
thatjust doesn’t sound like fun.”

The celebration weekend ofﬁcially
begins Thursday evening at 8:30 p.m.
with the opening reunion assembly
at the Liberty Hall site. Bestselling au-
thor Tom Wolfe ’5l will deliver the
keynote address for the event, en-
titled, “The end of the century and
the spirit of Washington and Lee.” In
addition, Wolfe will hold a book-sign-

.l'

Generals’,

By Frances Groberg

SPORTS EDITOR

It mayjust be a ﬁeld of dreams.

Though the formal dedication is not
until May 22, the Washington and Lee
baseball team was able to play their
first games on the new Cap’n Dick
Smith Field over break.

The $1.8 million facility features

ing prior to his speech, for his recent
novel “A Man in Full” on Thursday
at 3 p.m. in the Fairfax Lounge ofthe
University Center.

Tickets will be available in front of
the Co—op from 10 a.m. until 2 p.m.,
Monday through Wednesday.

Other events:

Friday:

4:30 p.m. -— “A Golden Anniver-
sary: 50 Years of Art at Washington
and Lee,” celebrating the 50th anni-
versary of the art department. duPont
Gallery.

Evening — private barbecues for
the undergraduate and law reunion
classes for years ending in nine and
four since 1949.

 12 iﬂing-tum ﬂirts

8:30 p.m. —— Reunion concert with
entertainment by 1964: The Tribute
and Liquid Pleasure. Liberty Hall.

Saturday:

11 a.m. — Distinguished Alumni
Awards presented to Earle Palmer
Brown ’44, Jorge Estrada ’69 and John
Wolf’69, ’72L. Distinguished Young
Alumni Awards will also be presented
to John Taylor ’84 and Valerie Pierson
’89. Lee Chapel.

12 p.m. - 2 p.m. ——Booksigning fea-
turing Prof. Pamela Simpson, (“Cheap,
Quick and Easy") and Richard
Weaver ‘96, (“Postcard history of Lex-
ington”). University Bookstore.

2 p.m. — 12th Annual Lee-Jack-
son Lacrosse Classic. VMI’s Alumni
Memorial Field.

new diamond shines

permanent seating for 350 spectators
and a 1,056 square foot building which
houses a press box, concession area,
and restrooms. The facility also fea-
tures sunken dugouts with bathrooms,
water fountains, and storage areas,
two enclosed bullpens, a 2,340 square-
foot building with two indoor hitting
cages, and a state-of—the-art public ad-
dress/sound system.

I

weekends

  

\

7
@’
/ 5

Full time work, some

evenings, flexible

schedule. Bonus for
working past Labor
Day!

 

  

The outﬁeld fence measures eight
feet high, except in right ﬁeld where it
towers at 16 feet. The stadium mea-
sures 400 feet to straight-away center,
320 to right, 330 to left, 365 to right
center, and 370 to left center. Also, be-
yond the left-center ﬁeld fence will be
a 36-foot long scoreboard.

Though ﬁnishing touches like fan
seats have yet to be installed before
the dedication, the team is still very
excited about their new home.

“We’re really excited because get-
ting to play the important games to-
wards the end of the season there is
really something in terms of getting us
to the playoffs,” junior Russell Wrenn
said. “We watched it go up all winter. It
was really a tribute to the seniors.”

Athletic Director Mike Walsh, a
former player, coach, and continuously
avid fan, has been instrumental to
bringing the new ﬁeld to campus.

The dedication will feature baseball
great Stan Musial, along with the Ma-

jor League’s executive vice-president
of operations Sandy Alderson.

It’s been an amazing season for this
team, and they’ve certainly proved that
they deserve such a beautiful facility.

  

   

APRIL 26, 1999

Bicenquinquagenary Gala

facts:
The Pond:

— “The Mother of all catering events.” So says Jerry
Darrell, W&L’s longtime director ofdining services.
As a crowd of 3,000 gathers underneath 90,000
square feet oftent, the task of feeding them will fall
on W&L’s dining services staff, who normally take
on an equally daunting 425 hungry students in the d-
hall.

— The May 1 dinner will be only one ofmore than 35
events the catering department will be handling
throughout the course of the weekend.

— Dining services have recruited four colleges’
executive chefs to help W&L’s own Greg Pearce with
the event.

—— The extraordinary menu includes wok, dessert,
pasta and seafood stations, as well as cheese, and
ice and salt sculptures.

The Numbers:

$165,750 — A rough guess at the overall hotel bill
based on an average price of $85 and a two-night
stay. W&L blocked 975 hotel and bed-and-breakfast
rooms from Raphine to Natural Bridge. Now that
those have ﬁlled, an additional 280 rooms have been
blocked in the Roanoke and Staunton areas.

14,000 ~ the number of shrimp to be served at
Saturday night’s dinner.

8,000 — estimated number ofalumni who will be
attending one ofthe satellite showings, not counting
those under the Big Tops.

300 — pounds of Rockbridge County-grown ostrich
meat to be served.

40 — gallons of lite Italian salad dressing to marinate
the food.

1/6 mile — approximate length oftable draping for
the buffet.

Come. r'1+s «Con H4:

 if you var
Jaeo»( rnm{,f_/_/

E-mail General Notes to 
phi@wlu.edu "

Serving in Memory

As a way to recognize Jonathan Nabors, a member of
the class of2002 who was tragically killed in a car accident
on his way back to school from Christmas break, the fresh-
man class will join together on Saturday, May 8 to serve
the community in his name.

The service day, which is organized by the Freshman
Leadership Committee, will begin with the dedication of a
tree and a plaque in memory of Jonathan, followed by a
kickoff brunch in the BGD quad. Participants will have the
opportunity to work with children, animals, and the eld-
erly, according to their preference. The service day will run
from I 1 a.m. until 4 p.m., but participants can work for the
length of time they desire. Those who participate will also
receive a free t-shirt.

The day should prove to be a great experience for the
class, the community, the school, and all for Jonathan, so
don’t miss out!

Wolfe booksigning scheduled

Alumnus Tom Wolfe ’5l will be one of three authors to
hold book-signing events here during Reunion Weekend
from April 29 to May 1.

Wolfe will sign copies ofhis latest novel, A Man in Full,
in the Fairfax Lounge of the University Center from 3 p.m.
to 5 p.m. on Thursday, April 29. Wolfe will also deliverthe
keynote address at the opening reunion assembly on April
29 at 8:30 p.m. The assembly and all ofthe book signings
are open to the public.

Artistic depression explored

On Monday, May 3, the Mental Health Associatiop
and Washington and Lee’s departments of English and
psychology will sponsor two events that explore the con-
troversial connection of artistic temperment to manic-de-
pressive illness.

From 4:30 to 6 p.m., Dr. Julie Jennings will lead a discus-
sion on the role played by manic-depressive illness in the
lives of well-known writers, musicians, and artists. The semi-
nar will meet from 4:30 until 6 p.m. in Room 313,Parmly Hall.

250th is coming

Washington and Lee will have its largest Reunion Week-
end crowd ever as the University continues its 250th anni-
versary celebration.

A gathering of over 3,000 alumni, students, faculty, staff
and guests are expected for Saturday evening’s 250th Na-
tional Celebration Gala near the Liberty Hall Ruins. Three
large tents have been set up to hold the huge crowds.

Call CenterSales Staff Needed

\

and

College & University

summer team in
Williamsburg,
Virginia!

 

Computers, Inc.

"Big Enough to Serve You. Small Enough to Want To."

College & University Computers, Inc. 1781 Jamestown Road

Suite 170 Williamsburg, Virginia 23185

  

 
 

require travel.

Take
phone or-
ders in our
in-bound
call center.

Some positions may

Join the College & University Computers

_r

  
       
 

»~*m

Call Mark
800-695-2995

or email:
:3 mlap1ume@cuc1nc.com
 for information and application.

 

   
    
  
   
  

k

   
    
  
       
    
   
 
    

 
   
   
     
    
      
 

APRIL 26, 1999
A

OPINION

 

PAGE 3

. ' ion
rial
PAGE 3 APRIL 26, 1999

The Phi celebrates the beginning of its l02nd year
with an all-star cast of characters on the editorial board
that should be sure to rub everyone the wrong way!

Polly Doig — batting ﬁrst is this team-leading junior,
g, who assumes the position of executive editor. Having

proven her skills by writing the entire front page by her-

self every week last term, Polly will now simply give death
threats to people who don’t write, having learned that
skill last fall.

Hollister Hovey — the position of associate editor goes

. to this bumed-out ex-executive. Mainly she’s just going

to hang around to laugh at the rest of the staff. She looks

forward to once again having a life. I

,\ Dan Grattan —— junior news editor who, in addition to
being a good writer, also ﬁlls the Phi’s quota for ex-Tri-
dent staffers and frat boys.

Op/Ed editor— is, um, to be determined by Polly after
she ﬁnishes making up songs and giving death threats...

A Frances Groberg —— returning sophomore sports edi-
tor, will balance a normal life with Polly’s abusive and
obnoxious songs. Her friends think Polly’s odd. Hell, we
all think Polly’s odd.

1 Steele Cooper —— the sports gimp, oops, we mean as-
sistant sports editor, is this strapping young freshman.
(Whoa! Phi’s over the frat boy quota! What do we do?!)

,~Elianna Marziani — features editor and one of the

5 only freshman to keep writing for us, so we thought we’d
promote her to a position of responsibility that will quickly
result in burnout.

Ginger Phillips —— sophomore co-features editor cur-
rently living it up in Spain while simultaneously escaping

* the Rockbridge County SWAT team.

Kevin McManemin — junior Last Word extraordinaire
who will once again keep us busy censoring him and writ-
ing apology letters; if the PiKA cook lets him live long

1,,‘ enough.

Heather “Little Mac” McDonald — sophomore copy
editor and ofﬁcial Empress of Excuses, of the official “Uh,
guys, I have to study Chinese” excuse. Someone should
really tell her that she’s majoring in East Asian Studies...

4. Emily Barnes — sophomore photo editor for the up-
coming year. This year she plans to have more camera
slaves, like assistent photo editor, freshman Lisa Lin.

The unsinkable Lionel “Leo” Brown — freshman cir-

A culation director reminds us all that he really doesn’t re-
member much about having Princess Di as his kindergar-
ten teacher back in the lirney land of London. (Leo fulﬁlls
the Phi’s quota for cynical Brits this year. It’s shagarriﬁc!)

Jason Williams — returning freshman business man-

A» ager has fought furiously with the editorial board all year...
to keep us out of debt.

Matt Lorber — freshman returns as ad director, to keep
pounding the pavement in search of ﬁnancial support so
we can continue to print out our little rag.

A All Soydan — freshman online editor sensation, who
is off in Never-Never Land seeking high and low for new
ways to update the Phi Online.

Now if we can just make sure the front page isn’t a

4 rough draﬁ...

Tilt: ﬂing-tum iﬂhi

‘A

8
Executive Editor Polly Doig
Associate Editor Hollister Hovey
News Editor Dan Grattan
W&Life Editors Elianna Marziani
Ginger Phillips
‘ Sports Editor Frances Groberg

Assistant Sports Editor
Last Word Editor
Copy Editor

Photo Editor

Online Editor

Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin
Heather McDonald
Emily Barnes

Ali Soydan

Senior Editors Erica Prosser
Sarah Meldrum

Jason Williams
Matt Lorber
Lionel Brown

Business Manager
Advertising Directors

A. . . .

Circulation Director

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
A undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editors, but The Ring-tum Phi is
A otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “Talkback” do not
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-

um Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
A/=p:ourt definitions oflibel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
.4. Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wIu.edu
http://wIu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

POINT / COUNTERPOINT

THE 250*“ GALA: BICENQUINQUAGERRIFIC on NOT?

250"‘ celebration the perfect
way to commemorate our
past

I still remember a conversation I had early in my fresh-
man year with a young lady who informed me that she
was accepted at both Washington and Lee and Princeton,
but decided to
come here for

 

   

 

the parties. 4 the LOOIIY B111

They say that  Kevin Mdvhnemin :00
everyone has
their talents,

(British aristocracy excluded) and I think — nay, I know
—— that here at W&L our collective talent is partying. In a
school of 1600 in a town not much bigger, we somehow
manage to throw parties every single weekend. Once a
year we come together to put on Fancy Dress, endlessly
billed in every W&L publication l’ve ever read as our
“$80,000 answer to the prom” and “the biggest social
event in the South.”

Throwing big, ridiculous parties is what we do, and we
do it damn well. We ain’t the brightest group around,
we’re not exactly a sports powerhouse, but I’ll bet you
$20 that we could beat any college twice our size in a
chug-off.

When other schools celebrate their past they do it
quiety, perhaps with a nice reception or a luncheon. When
W&L celebrates its 250'“, circus tents and satellites some-
how get involved. Suddenly the maitre d’ at Spago’s is
telling Steven Spielberg he can’t have his regular table
tonight because it’s reserved for W&L.

The 250"‘ gala this weekend is nothing less than the
embodiment of the very spirit of W&L itself. and I expect

    

 

iuote of the Week:

(I

Do you want some bean-

counter telling you what to
do?

—-— Professo;Jim Raper, referring to C-
school types in his Newspaper Manage-
ment class.

1}

us all to take part in this celebration. This weekend I want
to see every student out there, dressed in their ﬁnest, drunk
off their asses, showing the world how we do things here
in dear ol’ Lex. I want to see every alumni reliving their
college prime — and if it means embarrasing the wife or
losing yourjob, well, damn it, suck it up and show some
school pride.

I want our entire community to come together~— the liberal
professors who constantly whine about how we’re not into
this or that latest P.C. academic fad, the trustees who threaten
the frats with closure for doing exactly what the trustees did
when they went here, the seemingly worthless deans— I want
us all to come together and reﬂect on just what it means to be
a General over a massive game of beer pong. ,

Just remember to lift the toilet seat up before you puke.

250"‘ a perfect waste of good
time and money

The Earth has revolved around the sun 250 times since
Augusta Academy ﬁrst opened its door. 250 years, 25 de-
cades, two-and—a-half centuries, a quarter of a millenium
— use whatever

 

words you want ,,  - -
to describe this  5 M1 Vlda IDCB
man-made inven— '~ 1 Polly Doig ’(X)

  

tion ofthe calen-
dar to describe the passage oftime. The end result is still

 

the same: big deal.

First of all, 250 years ago some guy in another county,
that was not Rockbridge, was busy founding a school
called Augusta Academy. lfyoujump through about 48
hoops and follow the Yellow Brick Road that people
would like to take you down, then we ﬁnally get to Wash-
ington College —- something which is traceable.

Then there’s the fat little tuition hikewe all got this
year. If my $450 were spent in the pursuit of branding
everything from cups to toilet paper with the 250th logo,
then I’m going to writing a strongly worded letter to the
White Star Line.

Moving on to the gala, yes, it’s going to be wonder-
ful. And wow, we’ve got some really cool alumni. And
what could be better than getting sloppy drunk with them?
The Responsibility Symposium... organic chemistry...
Baner discovering your car parked in front of Woods
Creek at 8 a.m....

However, students are being charged $30 to dress up
real pretty and go pick at the leftover ostrich crumbs on
the buffet table that the alumni left us. Drinks are manda-
tory purchases, so if you’re under 21 (like 70 percent of
the student body), I guess your evening might be better
spent sipping tea in a prom dress at the Ruse.

By the time the 300th rolls around, however, we’ll all be
Five-Star Generals, and the prospect of spending an
evening under a tent watching jumbotron should be pretty
darn exciting.

  
 
  

    
 
  

  

 in rtwice.

!‘?'4’:"’ eat» bleiiIan§i}’6fDr«..

     

 .%._€»5“l.'~ I '
eatiiig for free.‘ 

 
      
  

 arse ioos, is. $100,006)

e.’

 

were__yesterday, I

 
 

no.  , .',.   T _p_.,.'. 

~. _“s wasthe ’greatest'glo‘ry year  lacrosse§;_(W.e
e undefeatedinithe regular seaso 6 ‘ o”si,ng’in”the.is§§itiiﬁ-
Viia "rofzthe ?playof‘fs,”-'oiifa7contro alj calf .at;iJohhs
pktné:)1heév¢nt.isW9rﬂIy‘o£réni¢m 9ri_nsitsidIiniver-

    

Dévidkigbyﬂﬁ.        .
 .Ri1,styenjoysf? I
I DearEditor, , ~ A  , "
First, two statements; 3

I .— j p 3 1) I enjoy being petty and, 2) I wouldhave written earlier,

but it has; takenme six’ days, to ﬁnally wade through your

E meaty March 22nd issue. . i ' 6 .

f Upon reading“Destination: Spring Break 1999”Inoticed

~‘ ‘a glaringetror in you photograph captions. Hailing from the

Golden State Iconsider myselffairly knowledgeable of local

 »_§Never though, has California’ been  ‘I I
~ « dating one of America’s most P,ete'rNort!i" ‘ ‘ ’

. ~  5 Washington and Lee. One of the recommendations
’  ‘to focus on six “high risk”,periods:=NBreshmaa—0rien
 ’ tion,Homecomi1ig,Wiriterweekend, \_ ,1 

i ii: Dress and Alumni Weekend.

 
"“f’it« " ' '

 duced alcohol problems iii’-the ’t/ivfe‘,‘i‘hj,ilgh ;,is1e¢.‘;3e‘riod;~>;§:

1- » cohol arrests for the Fall ?98/Winter’9_9itetms were at_.an§:
-  «air-time low, dropping from 144 in 1983-i;9}o-56 thisyearff
, Emergency room treatments for. serious>aleohol'ab

        

* f.Cunanan’s High School, and ttieﬁeav

 ;:the “Old Faithﬁil” Geyser. Like  if
i for the ‘past couple million years 
‘spewed scalding hot water on animals \
fandtoui1‘sts alike, in Yellowstonef
mine-.i_  g 
,~For»youI.igrievous error7Califom,iai , ,1
short of a retraction, an apology, and  be ‘*
“you do notaddress tl1is,issi1e.  ‘j,
"I Ito, and I will take matters into our .‘own hands
., 1 Yours’ A 
‘ ’ Rusty Blackwell ‘99

    

 
   
   

        

 
   
 

 

 
   
 

 
 

Alcohol problem do
.DearEditor, 9 —  ,
vlpiastiispring, a group ofstuden le , . ew, _ .
*9s ‘worked in cooperation with Tmsteelﬁd Bishop,:Qr
Jarie‘ Horton and Professor Linda Hooks to d8V_el0p 5;
egies to reduce the harmful effects of alcohol abtisejaf

     

   
    
 

  
  
     
 
   

    

 
 
   

. T As we look forward 
ebration of our-250th, axmivexsaiy, Ia M _ , , _
. i that by nearly every quantifiable iptieasureiweif ave ‘re-

  

 
 
 

  

 that have occurred so far during this academic"

 
 

 
   

 

and alcohol~related visitations to the   erha
 ?beeii signiﬁcantly lower than last yearlﬂklcohol“ _ 
‘ ‘and dormitory alcohol violations by’fres11m"V,  en‘-are"al$o,.

I” down. I I L I  -'

Of course, alcohol abuse still exists and statistics alone,
do not tell the complete story. Nevertheless, there is 
growing consensus among students thattthe abuse 
alcohol hurts our community, and that weineed to 
together to address this problem. Student leaders hajvfei
becn supportive of our efforts ~—- primarily because Stu’-f
dents themselves have identiﬁed’ the areas of iconcem;
and developed the strategies to improve our social envi-
ronment. We are makiiig positive progress.

I want to thank all of the students whohave worked;
hard to make this change. And I wish everyone a spirited‘
and safe Alumni Weekend. 0 0

David L. Howison

Dean of Students

   

     
  
   

 

 
  
 
 
 
 
  

  

 
   
    
   
  
  
  
 
   
 
   
   

   

 W&L?‘

2 ﬁling-tum lﬂhi

IF E

APRIL 26, 1999

W&L students save the world, one at a time

By Elianna Marziani
F EA TURES EDITOR

W&L Invades DC. and wins

Washington and Lee senior B.J. Walker and junior Mary Hight rubbed
elbows with the soon-to-be, wanna-be, and actually powerful last month.

Obtaining national recognition for both themselves and the school, they
were awarded with first and third place honors, respectively, in a nationwide
essay contest sponsored by the Center for the Study of the Presidency.

“I was completely shocked,” Walker said of his win.

He and Hight had been joking before the contest that she could take ﬁrst
place honors and he would yield and be satisﬁed with second. Little did either
of them know how close their predictions would be.

Hight, after hearing that she won third place, admitted, “I was shocked. It
was very, very surprising.”

The essay topic
this year was “Lead-
ership for the New
Millennium” or “Les-
sons Learned in the
20th Century.”

Walker’s “Our
Third Century-Who
Will Lead” dealt with
leadership in the 2 1 st
century, predicting
what the presidency’s
role will be (a copy of
his essay is available
for viewing at http://
wwwcspresidencyorg
essay.htm).

Hight’s essay fo-

Photo counts) of \\\\w.\\hiIehousc.go\‘
Pres. Bill Clinton signs a bill into law. B.J.
Walker (’99) and Mary Hight (’00) wrote
essays on the presidency for a national

 

Using latex to save babies

Think science is weak at liberal arts schools like Washington and Lee?
Think again. Sophomore Joel Fechisin is proof of the fallacy of that stereotype.
F echisin’s research in neuroscience has been brieﬂy summarized and pub-
lished in the recent Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biol-
ogy (FASEB) Journal and may soon be published in a health/science maga-
zine.

Fechisin, a biology major at W&L, spent last summer conducting research
at the Robert Wood Johnson Hospital in New Jersey. Fechisin said that he and
the team he was working with injected latex beads into the spinal cords of
prenatal rats. “We were looking for oxygen-sensitive sites within the brain and
found that they reside in local networks of respiratory and sympathetic re-
gions,” he said. “If they can ﬁnd the pathway through which this transpires,
they may be able to relate it to SIDS.” ‘

SIDS, Sudden Infant Death Syndrome, is described by the American SIDS
Institute as “the sudden and unexpected death of an apparently healthy infant,
whose death remains unexplained after the performance of an adequate post-
mortem investigation including 1) an autopsy, 2) investigation of the scene and
circumstances of the death, and 3) exploration of the medical history of the
infant and family... It is not a disease, nor can it be a diagnosis for a living
baby.” SIDS is associated with more children’s deaths than cancer, heart dis-
ease, pneumonia, child abuse, AIDS, cystic ﬁbrosis and muscular dystrophy
combined.

Scientists have as yet found no veriﬁable cause or sure preventative mea-
sure for SIDS. Fechisin and his team’s research could have implications that
would make it a part of a massive worldwide effort to understand SIDS.

Fechisin and his team summarized their research in a short Abstracts article
for the FASEB Journal and presented their research brieﬂy last week through
a poster presentation at FASEB’s Experimental Biology conference in Wash-
ington, D.C., in April. FASEB provides educational meetings and publications
to disperse information about biological research results. Fechisin plans to go
back to the hospital this summer to complete the research, and his group hopes
to have their research fully published in a magazine sometime shortly thereafter.

cused on the presi-
dencies of Franklin

Delano Roosevelt and Ronald Reagan, comparing their leadership styles and

ﬁnding remarkable similarities in them.

Walker won $250 for his essay. He is a politics and history double-major.
Though he interned at the White House last summer, the presidency is not
necessarily his greatest interest. He plans to attend law school next year, but he

has not yet decided on the university.

Hight won $100 for her essay. She is a politics major who hopes to go into

campaign management.

The Center for the Study of the Presidency is an institution devoted to the
study of the presidency, government and politics. It sponsors the Moses Leo
Gitelson Essay Contest annually forjunior and senior undergraduates.

Universities across the nation send students to the Student Symposium in
Washington, D.C., to represent their schools and compete in the contest. Here,
students meet with senior government ofﬁcials, business leaders and scholars

in general sessions and panel discussions.

contest and won first and third place,
respectively.

Fechisin said
that while he en-
joyed doing con-
tributing work to
the study, he is not
positive that he re-
ally wants to spend
his life injecting
rats. He eventually
wants to go to
medical school.

 

Fechisin got involved with this research through Govemor’s School. That
program gave him the opportunity to do research at the hospital.

 

“I just wanted to
get my hand into it
and see what it’s
like,” he said.

Spring Term Do’s and Don’ts  

By Elianna Marziani
F EA TURES EDITOR

While everyone else is hopping about the country and
beyond, those of us left behind get to enjoy Spring Term
and all the fun it entails.

Here is your complimentary (administration-approved)
TO DO list for Spring Term. Before leaving for the summer,
you absolutely MUST:

I. Go to Goshen. An oldie but goodie. Directions to
Goshen: Take Main Street toward Wal-Mart, but turn left
onto Route 39 (the stoplight right before Wal—Mart). Stay
on 39, and the popular Goshen picnic spot along the river
will eventually appear on the right.

2. Go to a party at Zollman’s. Directions to Zollman’s:
Take Route 1 1 south to Route 251 (Thomhill Road). Turn
right onto 25] and go south, keeping on 251 past Union
Run Road. Pass the country club and the Moose Lodge,
turn left onto Zollman’s Mill Road and stay on it until you
reach Zollman’s (look for all the other cars full of fellow
students having fun).

3. Go to a concert or movie in Charlottesville, unless
you enjoy waiting until the movie you’ve been waiting for
is practically out on videocassette before seeing it at the
Lexington theater. Directions to Charlottesville: Take In-
terstate 64 east for 63 miles until it crosses U.S. 29. Go east
on U.S. 29 almost 3 miles until it crosses U.S. 250. Take
U.S. 250 east for a mile straight into Charlottesville.

4. Go to Roanoke for a day of shopping and eating
somewhere other than Salemo’s or Spanky’s. Directions
to Roanoke: Take Nelson (Route 60) toward Harris Teeter
and stay on Nelson until it crosses Interstate 8 I. Go south
on I-81 for about an hour until the Roanoke exit appears (it
is a left exit onto Interstate 581). To get to Valley View Mall,
stay on I- 581 to the second Hershberger Road exit and
follow the signs.

5. Go to D.C. if you’re going through big-city withdrawal.
General directions to Washington, D.C.: Take Interstate 81
northeast for about 110 miles until it intersects Interstate
66. Take I-66 east for about 73 miles right into Washing-
ton, D.C. More maps for the D.C. area can be found online
at www.mindspring.com/~chadallen/dc/layers/.

6. Go ANYWHERE ——- organize a group of friends to go
on a random road trip, and go where the road leads you.
There’s something to be said for spontaneity.

DISCLAIMER: You really don’t need to leave Lexing-
ton to have fun, as these ﬁrst six options might have im-
plied. The carless can have a great spring term, too. Read
on.

7. Have a picnic with your friends out at the Ruins.
Women: if you make it (the food), they (the guys) will come.
Guys: free food. No further argument necessary.

8. Play Ultimate Frisbee in the BDG quad or on the front
lawn. A

9. Sit out on the front lawn or quad, talking, reading or
working on that tan that you’ll hate yourself for when the
wrinkles come in another 30 years.

I I . Help at Habitat for Humanity or your favorite com-

munity service group in the area.

12. Go see a couple of those three-month-old Lex mov-
ies. C’mon, it’s part of the Washington and Lee experi-
ence.

13. Go to a couple ofthose sports events you’ve been
“too busy” for so far in the year.

14. Join a new club. There are lots of new ones spring-
ing up, especially dance ones like the Swing Club. Learn
something new.

15. Stargaze.

I6. Go to some of those lectures you never had time for.
We actually do get some pretty impressive speakers here.
Make Mom and Dad proud: next time you call home (an-
other great Spring Tenn resolution), throw around some
impressive names of lecturers you’ve heard.

17. Attend the Mock Con Spring Kick-off: April 26-28.

18. Go to Candide.

19. Hang out with friends you haven’t seen for a while
because you’ve been conducting or undergoing
pledgeship.

20. Think of something special to do for Mom — mark
May 9th on your calendar. It’s Mother’s Day, SHE won’t
forget, so you’d better not either.

And if you’re feeling really lazy. . .

21. Catch up on a couple of e-mails to long-distance
friends you’ve abandoned during hectic winter term.

22. Have a movie marathon with some friends.

23. Play cards. Learn a new game.

24. SLEEP — this IS spring term, after all!

Here is your DO NOT list. It is shorter, so it should be
easy to remember. Things you should not be caught DEAD
doing spring term:

1. Sitting in your room chatting online. IM (instant mes-
saging) is occasionally (emphasis on OCCASIONALLY)
excusable, but chatrooms are a deﬁnite no-no spring temi.
It’s just too nice outside to waste the weather.

2. Overloading coursework. Yes, you are a W&L stu-
dent, but you are human, too. Take a break! Six credits is
more than enough. Hey, who are we kidding, three credits
sounds good, too!

3. Proving for yourself that I am honest when I say that
the custodians start cleaning the library around 3 am. in
the morning. You should have absolutely no clue ifl am
telling the truth or not (aside from the fact that I am a W&L
student and thus have to live according to the honor sys-
tem !) . . . DO NOT be caught in the library that late. Ever.

4. Taking advantage of D-hall’s ice cream bar. Only ﬁve
weeks ‘til summer and long days at the pool and the beach
in your swimsuit. Think about it.

5. Following the advice in #4. C’mon, you only live
once!

6. Making excuses for not going outside. Ifyou follow
#2 and #3, you should not have too much work. And in
this modern age of Benadryl®, Dimetapp®, and a personal
favorite, Claritin®, allergies are no excuse either. Spring
days are too gorgeous NOT to enjoy.

Photo courtesy of hup://uuu.uni-grei(swald.de/-labanirn/indcxhtml

Joel Fechisin (’01) worked with fetal lab
rats while conducting research that may lead
to clues about SIDS.

  

Senior ﬁghts India ’s poverty

While other students were skiing and spending time with their families dur-
ing winter break, senior David Sugerman went halfway around the world to help
those less fortunate than himself. Sugerman went to India, serving for a month
in Calcutta at Mother Teresa’s Homes for the poor.

Sugerman
claims that he
“had wanted
to do a study
abroad pro-
gram” that
c 0 m b i n e d
service and
study. He
went on the
Internet and
found out
about the
Partnership
for Service-
L e a r n in g ,
which spon-
sors such
programs in
I 1 countries
worldwide. He
chose India as his destination and left the day after Christmas.

“I ﬁnished my exams, and in a few days I was on the plane for Calcutta,” he
said. Sugerman and three other students from the United States made up the
India team. For the ﬁrst four days, the group stayed in Delhi/New Delhi, the
capital city of the Republic of India. Here, the students underwent orientation
to India, did some sightseeing in Delhi, and visited Agra and the Taj Mahal.
The group then moved on to Calcutta, the base for both their studies and
service. K

Mother Teresa established a Catholic order in Calcutta to serve the needy,
and that is where the students spent their mornings. Working in conjunction
with physicians from Doctors Without Borders, students brought medications
to the needy, bathed them and washed their sheets by hand.

In the afternoons, students took classes from professors from Calcutta Uni-
versity and Calcutta Presidency College. Their classes were held on a rooftop,
and the subjects of lectures included women in India, Indian government, pub-
lic policy, economics and what Sugerman describes as “a good overview of
Indian history and current life.” Artists, movie directors and scholars also served
as guest speakers for these students. The students attended I4 two-hour semi-
nars on topics covering the history, religions and cultures of India. In addition,
they made several ﬁeld trips to other religious, medical, educational and service
institutions in Calcutta. Students had a reading list, wrote a research paper and
participated in the program in exchange for six credits in the history/sociology/

See INDIA, page 5_

Photo cour\cs_\' of hup://uxuxsiudyahroad.com/psl/india.him|

Partnership for Service Learning allows students
to study abroad while helping people like
thislndian mother and her baby.

Uzkyzbza 93 0172 CG yjreof

/ores en/3

csoﬁio/c7)?1'ass gy Uzkyzhzb We/akraﬂers

 

I 6  Zldasﬂzlrzy/012 CS/.

Zﬂcé’ 5
71-12) e/

I l

463~ [832

 

 

'>

 

X.
1

‘l

I

‘The popular boardwalk in

I«

4

A

- cult, Sugennan was able
‘ to say, “I’m‘ very glad I

  

APRIL 26, 1999  ‘  

@112 {King-tum iﬂlii

IF E

Need an escape?
Try the beach

By Erica Prosser
SENIOR EDITOR

Does the warmer weather have you itching to travel? Do you have abso-
lutely no idea what there is to do in Virginia for fun over a weekend? Do you
need help planning your next spring road trip? Look no further/ In this week ’s
travel feature, we explore Virginia Beach, the proof that we are not as land-
locked as we feel here in Lexington.

You don’t have to go all the way to Florida to have your sand craving satis-
ﬂed. Just 243 miles east of here is Virginia Beach, a region of Virginia that actu-
ally touches the ocean. Best of all, other attractions, such as museums and
water parks, are close by, so if you decide to come in out of the sun, there are
other things to do for fun. But ﬁrst, the beaches themselves 

Atlantic Avenue is the famous “strip” in Virginia Beach and is listed as the
world’s largest resort beach by Guinness World Records. This area features
three miles of
boardwalk, restau-
rants, patio bars,
shops and other
attractions. This is
great if you’re a
tourist (or if you
want to soak up
the tourist ambi-
ance).

If you want a
beach slightly
less busy, try
Sandbridge, just
sojith of the strip.
It still has ser-
vices such as life-
guards, but it stays a little quieter.

For the most peaceful beach experiences, try the beaches preferred by locals
who are trying to avoid tourists. Chick’s Beach and Ft. Story, both on the

 

Phoio councs) of hltp://\\*u'\\.ego.neI/us/\'a/vb/index.hun

Surfers enjoy the waves at Virginia Beach.

_ Chesapeake, are quiet and pleasant, but parking can be tough to find in these

areas.

If you’re looking for a rustic, nature-filled beach, try the Back Bay National
Wildlife Reﬁige. The beaches here are not accessible by car and are well off the
beaten path, but they are worth the visit.

If you want to play in the water but not on the beach, local services offer
many ways to enjoy the surf. You can rent jet skis or take pontoon boat tours
from Virginia Beach, and you can take a harbor tour or rent a kayak from Norfolk.
Fishing, parasailing and surﬁng are all
available, too. So whatever your relation-
ship to water, Virginia Beach has you
covered.

ter slide park (with a 46-foot drop for the
particularly adventurous), the Cape
Hemy Lighthouse, the National Maritime

pubs scattered all over the place.

 

Photo courtesy of hiip://mus.ego.n:i/us/\'a/vb/mdcx.him

Virginia Beach appeals to

fpeople of all ages. Take it straight into Virginia Beach.

events, tiy www.va-beach.net for more information.
i Have fun, and don’t forget to wear sunscreen!

SEINDIA, continued from page 4

I .religion/literature field.

N Sugerman had mixed reactions about his trip, happy to gain the experience but
understandably disturbed by all the poverty and destitution he witnessed in Calcutta.
Sugerman, a pre-med major, said, “I went to India to see what international medicine
would be like. I certainly still have an interest in it. It’s just difﬁcult to see men that are

‘"45 years old and weigh 80 pounds. Now I’m still interested in [international medicine],

but I ’ve realized that it’s

Other local attractions include a wa- 9 W

What exactly is going on in this photo?

Take a look at this fascinating photograph. Now tell us what you see.

Is it Moses chatting with God‘?

Is it the Washington and Lee chemistry department after an experiment
gone horribly wrong?

Is it the fate ofthose who do not return library books within the speci-
fied time?

Tell us what you think this picture is, and your twisted ideas could be
featured in next week’s Ring-tum Phi.

Just send an e-mail with your name and class to marzianie@wlu.edu or
eprosser@wlu.edu. Tell us what you think the caption of this picture
should be. We will choose the best suggested caption and run it with this
picture next week.

We will also include the runners-up for best caption, just to be fair.
And remember: ifthe winning caption cannot fulﬁll its duties, it is thejob
of the first runner-up to step in 

Some rules for you creative minds out there before you start sending
us your thoughts:

' Doii’t"s’énd‘u§aiiy"w6rdsor’phrases that could get you slapped by

your grandmother. You know what we mean.

Don’t send us anything offensive or really horrible about a specific,
named person or group on this campus (we may be forced to slap you
ourselves).

All captions must be in English and no longer than a paragraph (just a
sentence or two should do it).

Get the submissions in before 5 p.m. on Friday, April 30, 1999 if you want
them considered.

If you are allergic to e-mail, you can also submit captions by placing
them in the manila envelope marked “W&Life” outside The Ring-tum Phi
office, which is located in the University Center, room 208. If you do this,
make sure captions are legible and that your name and class appear clearly
with the caption. If we can’t read your writing, we’re not going to bother
calling you to ask about it.

Captions will not be returned, no matter how much you plead. lfwe get
a strong enough response, we will try to run a photo caption contest as a
weekly feature in the W&Life section.

Be creative, and good luck!

Center, the Chesapeake Bay Bridge Tunnel and
the Atlantic Wildfowl Museum, just to name a
few. For you science fiction buffs out there, Vir-
ginia Beach is home to Imagine-Con 2000, the
Mid-Atlantic’s finest comic, science ﬁction, fan-
tasy, horror and toy fair convention (next year’s
convention will be held April 20-23, so start plan-
ning now if you can’t live without it). And be-
cause college students like to party, Virginia
Beach is a great destination for the clubs and

Sufﬁciently intrigued? To get to Virginia
Beach, take Interstate 64 east to the Interstate
264 West/VA-44 East exit and get on VA-44 East.

For lodging, other attractions and special

not going to be all that
idealistic.”

His time in India served
‘as a wake-up call to the ’
horrible realities of life for
many people. “To realize
that you’re only getting a
fraction of the people who
need help . . . it’s over-
whelming,” he said. He
stressed that even though
he had expected shocking
poverty, there is no way
to prepare yourself for
what you actually witness
in India. “It was difﬁcult,”

he said.

Sugerinan plans to go
to medical school at either
the Medical College of

‘ 'rginia or Thomas
efferson Medical School
in Philadelphia.

Though some experi-
ences in India were difﬁ-

Econo
Lodge

540-463-1311
- Parents’ Iliseount
- llewlv llenovated
- Free IIBIJ with nemote

went.”

  Cotter aii-We)

Academic.‘-'

THE TOTAL EDUCATION LOAN

Call toll-free 1-877-310-3456 for more information.
©1999 Chela Financial

r~\_.,.

Introducing the edge y(ﬁ:i:k\iiLia/ed for college.

To pay for all the essentials traditional ﬁnancial aid won’t cover, get the AcademicEdge‘“‘ Loan.
Low interest rates. Easy to apply. Make no payments in school. Flexible repayment after you graduate.

yet

http://AcademicEdge.Che|aFinancial.com

PAGE 5

PAGE 6

By Brendan Harrington

SPORTS WRITER

Sophomore attack Chris Brown
netted six goals, including ﬁve in a row
in the second half, as second-ranked
Washington and Lee pulled out a thrill-
ing 9-6 come-from-behind victory over
tenth-ranked Hampden-Sydney on
Saturday afternoon to claim their ﬁrst
ODAC Championship since 1995.

With the victory, the Generals (1 1-
1, 5-0) grabbed the automatic bid. to
the NCAA tournament that is awarded
to the conference champion. The win
also puts W&L in prime position to
grab one of the 12-team toumament’s
four ﬁrst round byes. W&L has now
won 10 games in a row, the longest
current winning streak in Division III.

“We’ve accomplished our first and
foremost goal: we have our ticket to
the NCAA Tournament,” said W&L
head coach Jim Stagnitta, who now has
ﬁve ODAC Championships under his
belt. “The kids are excited, in particu-

lar the seniors, especially because
this is the ﬁrst year there is an auto-
matic bid on the line, which makes the
conference that much harder to win.”

The Generals looked tentative in
the first half, and went into halftime
trailing the Tigers 4-2. Neither team
found the net until the final minute of
the first quarter, when Hampden-
Sydney (10-3, 5-1) scored two goals
in fifteen seconds. W&L finally got
on the board with 7:40 remaining in
the second quarter when sophomore
attackman Matt Dugan scored his
48th goal of the season to make it 2- l.
Hampden-Sydney responded with
back-to-back goals and took a 4-1 lead
with 3 :45 leﬁ in the half, but just more
thana minute later sophomore
midfielder Pope Hackney scored to
make it4-2.

“We didn’t have a lot of posses-
sions early on,” Stagnitta said. “We
got some good shots, but we’d get
one shot and miss the cage and they
would get the ball back and hold on

S

to it.”

The Generals have dominated the
third quarter during the past two sea-
sons, outscoring their opponents 1 17-
28, and Saturday was no exception.
Brown scored four goals in third quar-
ter while sophomore goalie Wes Hays
and the W&L defense shut down the
Tigers’ offense, and the Generals took
a 6-4 lead into the final quarter.

“At halftime, Coach [Stagnitta] told
us that this was our season right here,
and that we had to get it done,’-’ Brown
said. “It kind of put the season into
perspective and we came out in the
second half and got it done.”

With 8:00 remaining in the game and
the Generals leading 6-4, Hampden-
Sydney had numerous chances to
make it a one goal game, but instead
the Generals went up by three. All in a
matter of thirty seconds, Wes Hays
came up with two big acrobatic saves,
Hampden-Sydney All-American
Chamie Burroughs hit the post, and
senior defenseman Charlie Antrim

  
   
  
    
  
  
  
   
    
 
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
    
    
   
    
 
   
   
   
 
  
   
    
    
   
   
  
   

G112 iRtng-tum ilﬂhi

PORTS
Men’s lax grabs ODAC title, tourney bound

made a dazzling non-goalie save. W&L
senior defenseman Mike O’Neal then
intercepted a pass, giving the Gener-
als a 4-3 break on the other end that
resulted in Brown’s ﬁfth unanswered
goal, off an assist from junior
attackman Colin Dougherty.

“All those saves and then turning
it around and scoring on the fast break
was the difference in the game,”
Stagnitta said. _

The Tigers brought it within two at
7-5 and 8-6, but a goal by Dougherty
and Brown’s sixth goal of the game
sealed the deal for the Generals.

“It’s amazing to me that you can play
most of the first half the way we played
against a really good team and come
out and win the game,” Stagnitta said.

Like any other game, there is always
a little bit of luck in lacrosse. The Ti-
gers hit ﬁve pipes during the course of
the game, and if some of those shots
had gone in, the game might have had
a different outcome.

“You can say the pipes were the

difference, but a lot of them came to-
ward the end of the game when they
were taking desperate shots,”
Stagnitta said. “A pipe is a pipe, it
still counts as a missed shot. We’ve
had games where we’ve hit ﬁve or six
ourselves.”

Dougherty had three assists to go
along with his goal. Freshman
midﬁelder Andrew Barnett and sopho-
more midﬁelder Bernie Norton each
had two assists. Brown set a new ca-
reer high for goals in one game. He
now has 42 goals on the season and
64 for his career.

“You have to pick who you’re go-

ing to stop and they concentrated I

pretty hard on Matt [Dugan] and Colin
[Dougherty],” Stagnitta said. “If you
concentrate on taking those two kids
out of the game, somebody is going
to be able to step up, and Chris
[Brown] did a tremendous job of put-
ting it away.”

Hays looked brilliant in goal for the
Generals, as he came up with 10 big

APRIL 26, 1999

saves. Hays has only allowed an av-
erage of 5.44 goals per game, which is
one of the nation’s best goals-against-
averages.

“That’s one of the reasons we are
better this year, Wes can make some
big saves,” Stagnitta said. “In the big
games — Washington, Gettysburg,
Hampden-Sydney — he has come up
really big.” "

W&L has two more games before
the NCAA tournament gets underway.
The Generals take on VMI in the Lee-
Jackson Classic next Saturday at
Alumni Memorial Stadium and host
Randolph-Macon the following
Wednesday at Wilson Field.

“Hopefully we can beat up on VMI
and Randolph-Macon, and then get
one of the top two seeds in the play-
offs,” Brown said. “Then we can play
at home until the playoffs.”

“We’ve been in another big game,
and found a way to win,” Stagnitta

said. “I think we’re learning, and I still
think we’re getting better every game.”

Track hosts ODACS

The Washington and Lee men’s and women’s track teams hosted the
ODAC meet this weekend. The men placed third and the women placed

fourth out of ﬁve teams.

For the women, junior Jill Kosch placed fourth in the 200-meter dash and
the 400-meter dash with times of 27.23 and 1:03.08. Senior Lisa Brennan
placed fourth in the 800-meter run and the 1,500-meter run with times of
2:26.39 and 4:59.64. Sophomore Wendy Case came in ﬁfth in the 3,000-meter

run with atime ofl 1:41.44.

Freshmen Britt Shaffer and Melissa Palombo came in ﬁfth and sixth re-
spectively, in the 100-meter high hurdles with times of 17.53 and 18.45. The
women’s 4x 1 00-meter relay finished fourth, as did the 4x400-meter relay with

times of52.9l and 4: 14.40.

Freshman Sarah Schmidt and junior Meredith Mlynar ﬁnished ﬁrst and
second in the women’s javelin throw, with distances of 110’03.50” and

104’06.50.

On the men’s side, junior Hansell Pasco ﬁnished third in the 100-meter
dash with a time of 1 1.15. Senior Darrick Alford ﬁnished third in the 5,000-
meter run with a time of 16:19.30. Senior Joe Bestic earned fourth in the 1 10-
meter high hurdles with a time of 16.60 and third in the 400-meter intennedi-

ate hurdles with a time of57.3“5.

The men’s 4x 1 00-meter relay earned fourth with a time of 43 .98, and the
4x400-meter relay earned third with a time of 3 :26.23.

Senior Mark Granger earned ﬁrst in the shot put with a distance of
41 ;07.00”, and sophomore Chris Wahl earned third with a distance of 40’00.00”.
Granger also earned fourth in the discus throw with a distance of 120’04.00”.
Junior Leigh Miller earned third in the javelin throw with his distance of

16l’l 1.50”.

A numberof the athletes threw and ran for personal bests.

 

Junior Leigh Miller winds up to throw the Javelin.

— Courtesy of Sports Information

'. _  ‘» ;_. 4'

Photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Editor

price 0 size 0 townhouse 0 garden 0 free utilities 0 fitness

MOVING TO
RICHMOND?

EB
THE APARTMENT
..._..!:Q9!§T.Q.l3.....

R|0HMllllD’S FREE LDGATDR SERVICE
Call for Information and your Free Map

(33232-ﬁ§'léE6e

In Virginia (800) 542-3276
Nationwide (800) 368-7669
Fax (804) 529-6698 Q

programs 0 clubhouses oprice 0 townhouse 0 garden 0 free

utilities 0 fitness facilities 0 social programs oischools 0

Brand new ﬁeld, same old story

Baseball wins two out of three for the week on new Cap’n Dick Smith Field.

By Tod Williams

SPORTS WRITER

The boys of summer returned from
spring break with a new ﬁeld and a
bid to the ODAC tournament. The
team played its ﬁrst game in recently
completed Cap’n Dick Smith Field on
Monday with an impressive 9-3 win
over Lynchburg.

The Generals were 2-for-3 on the
week at their new home, and they also
added a road win over ODAC oppo-
nent Hampden-Sydney.

The team’s three wins this week
assure them of a spot in the upcom-
ing ODAC tourney for the ﬁrst time
since 1996.

The Generals split their double-
header with Guilford on Saturday.
Sophomore hurler David Sigler earned
the win for the Generals, upping his
record on the year to 8- 1.

The eight wins tie an 84-year-old
Generals record for number of wins in
a season. Sigler threw a complete
game for the 5-1 victory, striking out
six Quakers and giving up only four
hits and one earned run. He failed to
walk a batter.

The Generals’ offense came through
in the heart of the game, scoring two
runs in the third and fourth innings, as
well as an insurance run in the fifth.

Patrick Hall continued his offen-
sive production for the team, driv-
ing in three RBIs in a 2-for-4 perfor-
mance. Hall’s .363 average is the
Generals’ second best. Freshman
third baseman Matt Kozora went 2-
for-3 with an RBI.

Kozora, the team’s lone freshman,
leads the Generals in at-bats and is
second in hits with 35, making his .347
average the team’s third highest.

The second game wasn’t as fruit-
ful for the Generals. Guilford’s runs
didn’t come often, but they came in
bunches. Four runs ﬁrst and third in-
nings came thanks to the bats of Quak-
ers like Chris Butcher and Andy Reed.
Butcher had a double and a triple, and
Reed was also 2-for-3.

Kozora again held the hot bat, as
he was the only General with two hits.
He had two singles and an RBI. Se-
nior Bob Weston fell to 7-3 on the sea-
son with the loss.

Weston gave up six hits, result-
ing in six runs, in his two-and-a-third
innings of work. He only struck out
one Quaker.

Sophomore Bill Christ and Senior
Al Dominick also saw action for the
Generals.

Guilford’s Chad Coward threw well
into the sixth inning for the Quakers,
striking out eight Generals.

The Generals traveled to Hampden-
Sydney to spank the Tigers 12-2 on
Wednesday. Senior catcher E.J.
Murphy began the Generals’ scoring
in the top of the first inning with a three-
run shot.

Already ahead 3-1, the bulk of the
scoring came in the team’s seven-run
ﬁfth inning. Junior Chris Stakem be-
gan the inning with a single. Singles
followed by Murphy, Kozora, junior
David Hanson, junior Russ Wrenn,
sophomore Casey Nixon, and another

Junior Andy Thompson strides into third on Saturday during the double header against Guilford.

from Stakem.

Stakem, who took the win for the
Generals, was 3-for-4, with two sto-
len bases. Murphy was 2-for-5 with
ﬁve RBI, and Hanson was 3-for-5 with
three RBI.

The Generals christened the new

field with their 9-3 stomp of J-'

Lynchburg on Monday. Sigler threw
all nine for the Generals, striking out
11 Hornets with only one walk.
Hanson was 4-for-5 on the day, in-
cluding two doubles and three RBIs.
Hall andjunior left ﬁelder Jon Mad-
den both had two hits.

The Generals ( 1 8-10, 9-7 ODAC) will
resume play on Friday when the ODAC
tournament begins at Lynchburg’s City
Stadium. The Generals’ seed has yet
to be detennined.

’..:’—7"i”-iii"-4' «A I   f-

  
  
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
   
  
 
   
 

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

    

  

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

 

  

 

 

Clhr ﬂing-tum iﬂlti

A

‘Women’s lax ousted in semis

    

 

Pliotioﬁby mi y Barnes/Photo Editor
Seniors Lauren Francis, Cory Mettee, Kimmy Lubin, and Karin Treese are honored before the
‘first-round ODAC game against Bridgewater. The seniors were highlighted for their play.

“I think we experienced a lot of growing pains this year,”
Miller said. “Every team has to go through that at some
point. I hope that the feeling we had at the end ofthe game
will stay with everyone and motivate us for next year.”

Hathom has no regrets about the season.

“There were times when we were absolutely brilliant,
and times when we showed how young we are. My great-
est goal for them was to learn the level at which you have
to play day in, day out, minute after minute to be success-
ful at a high level, and I think we did that.”

» By Frances Groberg

A SPORTS EDITOR

Once again, Randolph—Macon proved to be a stumbling
block for this year’s Generals. In the semiﬁnals of the ODAC
Tournament, the third—seeded Washington and Lee

«women’s lacrosse team fell to the second-seeded Yellow
Jackets by a score of 10-6. With the loss, the team ends
their season with a record of 7-8.

Randolph-Macon jumped out to an early lead, scoring
six of the ﬁrst seven goals. The Generals went into halﬁime
down 7-2. During the break, the team tried to ﬁnd a way to
adjust their outlook on the game.

“I think we went into the game scared,” junior defense
Ansley Miller said. “At halftime we realized that we really
needed to go out and take charge, that it wasn’t just going
to come to us. The score was bad, but we knew it wasn’t
impossible. We were in control of our own destiny.”

B'e‘h'in’d‘goals fro’ni”s‘ophoi'no're‘ attacl'<’Liz Borges ‘and
senior midﬁelder Karin Treese, the Generals were able to

;\_ pull within 7-4 with 13:41 remaining, but Macon responded
with three quick goals to dash the hopes of W&L.

“Our attitude was that we had nothing to lose,” Head
Coach Jan Hathom said. “Early in the game we had our
opportunities to score the goals and cash in, but we didn’t.

“They played their game, and played it very well.”

The Generals were led offensively by sophomore
midﬁelder Caroline Gee, who scored two goals. Junior goal-
keeper Ginny Jemigan recorded 1 l saves on the day.

To get to the semiﬁnals, the Generals recorded a solid
‘l7-4 victory over the sixth-seeded Bridgewater College.
Borges tied a career high six goals and also added two
assists to the effort. The Generals scored the last three
goals to go into halftime with a 7-3 lead.

it After halftime, the Generals scored the ﬁrst eight goals
of the second half en route to the l3—goal victory. The
Generals were led offensively by Borges. Freshman attack
Eloise Priest andjunior attack Katherine Riddle scored three
goals apiece. W&L junior goalkeeper Ginny Jemigan col-

A lected six saves for the Generals.

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

A,

 

BE A LEADER IN A HIGH TECH FIELD.
While signing up for your high Army. An Army that's on the
J. _ tech courses, sign up for Army cutting edge of high technol-
ROTC too. ROTC is a college ogy. ROTC provides hands-on
elective that develops in leadership training. Valu-
talented students the skills  able training that prepares

    

 and confidence to lead and you for a military or a
3 become officers in today's '1‘ B civilian career.
BEES?
‘ THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE

For details, call VMI Army ROTC
at (540) 454 ""1,

.s- SPORTS

PAGE 7

 Where have you gone?

Pondering the loss of sports heroes in 1999 and kudos to W&L spring sports.

By Dan Grattan

NEWS EDITOR

1999 may be remembered as the year of the lost su-
perstar. Not evena third of the way through the year,
and professional basketball, baseball, hockey and now
football have all said goodbye -to the great ambassa-
dors of their sport.

In January, Michael Jordan bid farewell to basketball
after mezmerizing the world with his amazing abilities
over the past 14 years. He ended his career as the all-
time NBA career scoring average leader, putting in 3 1.5
points per game. He may very well have been the great-
est basketball player ever.

Baseball also lost an immortal ﬁgure earlier this year
in Joe DiMaggio, who died at age 84 this April. Known
as the “Yankee Clipper” and “Joltin’ Joe”, DiMaggio
was the embodiment of what a professional baseball
player was supposed to be; he played for the love of
the sport and not for the love of his contract.

Last week, Wayne Gretzky, known as “The Great
One”, retired from hockey after 2 1 seasons, four Stanley
Cups, and every NHL scoring record worth having to
his credit. Gretzky retired as a New York Ranger, but
won all of his championships in the l980’s with the

then-dominant Edmonton Oilers.

And now John Elway, whose name has become syn-
onymous with the Denver Broncos, will soon announce
his retirement ﬁom football, according to ESPN. He is
one the last trancendant athletes our time who, like Jor-
dan will leave the game on top, riding out the thrill of
repeating as World Champion.

So where does that leave professional sports? Any
league lacking a true superstar is not for me. I anxiously
await the arrival of a player that can take his sport to
another level in the near future, like Jordan and Gretzky
did ten years ago.

#*#¥####

On a most positive note, congratulations to the
W&L Men’s Tennis, Women’s Tennis and Men’s La-
crosse teams for capturing the ODAC Championships
this past weekend.

And cheers to the baseball team who, along with
top-seeded Bridgewater earned a spot in the ODAC
baseball tournament next weekend. If the bats stay
lively and the defense steady for the Generals, we
may have to make room for one more championship
trophy in the case.

Tennis cleans up at ODACs

By Robert Turner

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee's men's tennis team had
another successful ODAC tournamnent this week-
end, winning their fourth consecutive conference
championship.

The Generals ﬁnished eight points ahead of runner-
up Hampden-Sydney and twenty-eight points in front
of third place Virginia Wesleyan.

The team had success in both singles and doubles
competition, as sophomore Kelly Radford, senior Scott
Babka, freshman Rhys James, senior David Lehman, and
freshman Andrew Roberts all won singles titles,

Doubles teams consisting of senior Dale Pretilal
Babka, James/Radford, and Roberts/senior Torn
Washburn swept the doubles competition. Despite
their tremendous success in ODACs, the team still

waits to see if they will receive a bid to the 1999 NCAA
Tournament which will be held in California.

“By winning ODACs we lived up to some of our pre-
season expectations. We would have liked to win the re-
gion but nothing at ODACs was a disappointment,” fresh-
man Andrew Robertson said.

On Tuesday, the women’s team destroyed Roanoke 9-0
in their ﬁnal match of the season. Wins in singles were
posted by junior Brook Hartzell, senior Erin Eggers, fresh-
man Melissa Hatley, freshman Manning Willard, sopho-
more Christina Campbell, and sophomore Anne Castello.

All doubles teams were also victorious, including
Hartzell/Hatley, Eggers/Willard, and Campbell/Castello.
The win improved the team to 16-4 overall and 1 1-0 in the
ODAC.

The ODAC tournament was held at Sweet Briar College

from Friday to Sunday. The results of the tournament were H

not available at press time.

 

RTHUR
ANDERSEN

Warmly Welcomes

The Class of 1999 Full Time Staff

Assurance 4% Business Advisory Services, Vienna
Amy Greenberg
Stephen Guenther
Rachel Nitsche

Office of Government Services, Washington, DC
Cory Mettee

The Class of 2000 Summer Interns

Assurance & Business Advisory Services

Vienna
Kristen Burr
Rob Hendricks
Sula Jacobs
Cynthia Johnson
David Levinson
Jason Miller

Baltimore
Ma ttlre W Neuma yer

_ Pittsburgh _
Alicia Faderewski

Atlanta
Walter Plyler

New York
Ryan Elliott

Tax and Business Advisory Services, Vienna
Frances Alford A

We congratulate them on theirloutstanding
achievements at Washington and Lee University
and look forward to having them on the team.

ARTHUR

ANDERSEN

 

 

PAGE 8

W

o
E?
04.99
32-
90°”
55°
:I*"‘=
cl-5%
>"h-to

LAST WORD

 

APRIL 26, 1999

In the wake of the Trench Coat Maﬁa

By Kevin McManemin

RA VING AND DROOLING

Let’s review a few of the arguments
that have been ﬂoating around the
media since a couple of Colorado kids
turned their high school into their own
wacky shooting range:

We need to put God back in our
schools. This never would have hap-
pened if we taught basic J udeo-Chris-
tian morality in our public schools.

First of all, has anybody ever heard
of parents?

Second of all, the public school
system does a bad enough job of
teaching too many subjects already.
If we add morality classes, all that will
do is give America’s students one
more subject to fail. ln addition to not
leaming history and not learning math,
our children can not learn about mo-
rality as well. Super. Next thing you
know we’ll be reading about how far
our kids are behind the Koreans in the
number of Commandments they can
name.

Finally, Judeo-Christian morality
has been around for a long time and

let’s face it, folks, it hasn’t exactly
worked that swimmingly. The history

of humanity is ﬁlled with Inquisitions,
Crusades, Kathie Lee Gifford Christ-
mas Specials and other nasty things.

“Hey, let’s teach the kids about
Jesus!” Yeah, great. Maybe instead
of opening ﬁre on the jocks they’ll
just shoot up an abortion clinic in-
stead.

Violent movies and television are
to blame. We need more censorship
to protect our children.

Every time. Every single time some
loser offs a few of his classmates, we
blame the movies and television. This
argument has more ﬂaws than OJ
Simpson’s defense. First of all, a lot
of people watch violent movies and
surprisingly few of them turn into ho-
micidal maniacs. In fact, Hollywood’s
shoot-em-up violence epics score big
on the international box ofﬁce yet it’s
only American kids who seem to have
this little murder problem. Canadians
watch most of the same movies we
do, and have you looked at the crime
statistics for Canada? Their idea of a
crime wave is two shopliftings in the
same province in the same month, eh?

Yet fat-headed idiots still go on
CNN and blame the movies. One guy
suggested we put a tax on violent
movies — charge the ﬁlmmakers mil-

lions for violent content and jack up
ticket prices to $50 each (I know that’s
so ridiculous it sounds like ajoke but
l’m serious, some lackwit actually said
that).

Why aren’t we blaming CNN? Do
you suppose this crime might have
been influenced by the other highly-
publicized school slaughters that hap-
pened in the past few years? lsn’t CNN
just feeding into these pathetic kids’
goal of getting attention?

They say these kids idolized Hitler.
Oh, I don’t know, but do you suppose
the whole “mass murder” idea might
have had a bit more to do with Hitler
and a bit less to do with Quentin
Tarantino? I suppose we should out-
law all books about Adolph and World
War ll, lest some kid get a bad idea.
And let’s look at Hitler. I doubt he ever
rented any Scorsese ﬂicks at the Berlin
Blockbuster, but he seemed to have
that whole “violence” thing down

pretty well.

We need stricter...

Hold on, I’m not done with that last
one yet. Nothing makes me madder
than the egregious ﬂaws in logic evi-
dent in the “let’s censor violent enter-
tainment” argument. If we go after vio-
lent movies, I guess we should take

 

 

ﬂarrg/:s° .s°%oﬂ/2/[mg .s/aree

4!-aaker: $.70

‘-The important things in life are free.
‘For everything else, there’s Qisaster ‘Bard.

Gacnine: $7?

Fnck a
cigars tesz $70

Kuining your
professional lmselmll
career: priceless

risan

Shakespeare out of our schools —
most of his plays end with someone
getting stabbed. They even gouge a
man’s eyes out in “King Lear.” THEY
GOUGE GLOUCESTER’S EYES OUT
FOR GOD’S SAKE! That’s high art,
but “Reservoir Dogs” is pure crap?
(Though, granted, Shakespeare
doesn’t resort to the f-word ﬁve times
a sentence).

Violence is a simple fact ofhuman
existence. lt’s in our blood, and we’re
not about to get rid of it unless we
change human society, human history,
human physiology and human psy-
chology. Changing the picture shows
at the local cinematorium won’t change
a thing. Entertainment is our release
from the problems of this world, not
the cause. Clinton bombs the Serbs
and we cheer; kids bomb the cafeteria
and suddenly people are asking
“where did they learn this behavior?"
Wake up, folks, it ain’t the movies.

Are you done with that one yet?
Yeah, let’s move on to the next ar-
gument.

We need stricter gun control laws.

Now I’m no legal scholar, but aren’t
there already laws against minors own-
ing guns? Those laws didn’t really
seem to work in this case, did they?
Why do we think more laws are going
to solve things? Why am I suddenly
asking so many questions? I’m not
offering very many solutions, am I? ls
this piece over yet?

These senseless killings are a
great tragedy.

Let’s put things in perspective. The
popularity of Backstreet Boys, In Sync
and 98° — now there’s a tragedy.

That’s not nice. How would you like
it ifsome psychopath opened ﬁre at
W&L?

Don’t worry, Prof. Holliday left.

That was just a rumor. It wasn’t
true.
Well, anyway, I suppose I wouldn’t

like it ifsome psychopath opened up
at W&L, unless he just bombed the
Law School in which case I think there
would be widespread dancing and ca-
rousing in the streets the likes of
which haven’t been seen since V-J

day.

+-

L.
I

You wouldn’t say that if you were a ‘

law student.
If! were a law student l’d do my
civic duty and slit my own wrists.
)1

This is pointless.
Thank you.

FUN FOR Aﬂ_..MMS"§

Make your own college yarn

Sure, we all love to relive our
college days, but who can remem-
ber all the little details dulled by
time and whisky?

Never fear, alums! We at the Last
Word have heard plenty of your
“wild” college stories and we’ve
come to the conclusion that it’s all
really the same old boring story
with minute variations.

Using high-tech computers,
we’ve created this easy-to-use
Wild College Memory Maker®.

Just read the story below and
ﬁll in details from the column on
the right. If you can’t ﬁgure that
out, I guess it is true that any idiot
could have gotten into W&L back
in the day.

Good luck, and happy memories!

“Ah yes, we were wild in those
days. Oh boy, let me tellyou. One
time me and [l] (his real name
was [2]) went to a guy we knew
in BM to pick up a case of [3]
for our fraternitj/‘s scavenger
hunt.

Yeah, we were pretty crazy back

to [4].

We got so drunk that night we
ended up puking all over [5]! Of
course our colored butler didn't
mind mopping it up.

Those were the days, I tell
you."

then. For scavenger hunt we had .

 
   
 

An official W&L

250*!‘

activity

     

"250 years of meaningless milestones’

l1l *
Flipsy

Dink

Royce

Sneetch

l2l
C. Preston Buckworthy lV

T. Wescott Haupt-Lang Ill
Dr. H.R. Pennington C. Lee lV
J. Wembley Stuart Stewart Vlll

l3l

Natty Bo

Bootleg turpentine & rat poison
Syphilis

Fine Cabbage Liquor

l4l

Dance the Charleston with a horse
Run naked all the way to Belgium
Go out with a lady ~ UNESCORTED!
Lynch a carpetbagger

l5l
The backseat of our covered wagon
President Taft’s daughter :
Tarnation, dag nabbit .
Beano’s weed supply (for ’70s’ alums):

OOOOOO‘OOO00033000OOkIIOOOb'OOOOOO‘Q"OOOOOC

0
)9

Ethnic cleansing is

.-. . _,, x .

  

Between paying for all the bullets and bombs I barely had enough money left over
for the gas chambers! Luchil y I have Monsfe/"Card They raised my credit limit and
gave me a big cash advance! And only Monster Card is accepted by more than
1,200 terrorists and arms dealers worldwide. when you need money and you need
it fast, Monster Card is always there for you.

 

Qlobodan Milosovic trusts
Monsfer Oard — shouldn't you’?

call 1-800-MONSTER today and start cleansing your bank account!

n’t cheap!

THE Hook 

A Story Of Kegs, Dances, Paddlings, ,
And A Hell Night That Will Lead.You To
Them” 0 ,

4

gr.

5-

, Eats?-bls‘Es'wiHA‘r L  .
you KNEW TO BE;TE2UE;:_O.lg=‘v ‘Fl.-l'i.lA.TERNlT'Y RUSH, 
S BUT VVERE_;lA>F§AlD.TO.A.DMlT.  T T  ,:

B:l3Bc;-cake
P1). E39; 84 4

Send mt: oopy(ir:s) of!-IELLMAS‘I'ER
Name *
Addrcss
ZIP __..__.__
$15 per book plus $2 shipping and hézntlling.
Please make checks gzzay;-1'1:-lt: to Bill B4,;--iinkzi and :r1a:i ‘.::.v: t‘

 

.§o'ooooaehoooooa;_rooo

