4

A

foﬂhiz iiing-tn

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsrrY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

 

VOLUME 102, NO. 5

By Polly Doig

EXECUT1 VE EDITOR

In one of the final acts of celebration of the
bicenquinquagenary, Washington and Lee University put
pieces of itself in a capsule and buried them in Stemmons
Plaza for a future generation to find.

It contained everything but the Colonnade and the
kitchen sink.

As part of Senior Night festivities Wednesday, the 250"‘
Committee sponsored the burial of a time capsule which

will be uncovered in 50 years for the 300"‘ anniversary.
“We were really excited to get it all done,” 250'“ Commit-

A tee Time Capsule co-chair Brad Baker said. “It was a great

 

way to cap off the 250*‘ year. It was a pretty big vessel, and
we ended up ﬁlling the whole thing up.”
W&L President John Elrod contributed a letter to the
future president of the university, which read in part:
“Certain as we are that the University will have contin-
ued to evolve over the last ﬁﬂy years academically, tech-
,nologically, physically, and culturally, we are as hopeful in

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

:These are the times
to remember. . .

W&L buries a time capsule commemorating the 250"‘ that
will give future generations a glimpse of who we were

1999 that the values of honor and civility, which have not
changed and have deﬁned the University throughout its
history, are as vibrant and sustaining in your time as they
were in ours and our predecessors. It is these values that
have held the Washington and Lee extended family to-
gether so decisively and distinguished the University
among its peers in higher education.”

The capsule contains snippets of everything from mu-
sic and fashion, to honor and predictions of the future.

“We just wanted to put things that wouldn’t be in Spe-
cial Collections, so you could have some other references

as to our lives,” Baker said. ,
In addition to W&L to the expected present-day W&L

memorabilia, Baker also included photos of something a
little more personal in the time capsule: his daughter
Maggie.

“I put in three pictures of her on the Colonnade all in
her Sunday dress,” Baker said. “When she sees the pic-
tures in 50 years, and if for some reason I’m not here, she
will know that she got to spend time with our family in
Lexington.”

photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Editor

GIANT Q-TIPS: Two Washington and Lee students practice their
skills for “American Gladiators” during the Spring Swing held

last Friday.

W

MONDAY, MAY 24, 1999

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

250"‘ Committee co-chairman Nate Tencza (left) and other committee members shovel dirt on

top of a time capsule that won’t see the light of day
Wednesday in front of ‘the’ Williams S'choo'l‘.' ‘ “'“’

for 50 years. The capsule was buried last

“Phantom Menace” hits Lexington

By Polly Doig

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

Amidst outcry from critics and vir-
tually unprecedented hype, “Star Wars
Episode I: The Phantom Menace”
opened across the country Tuesday
at midnight. The movie broke the one-
day record when it opened to $28.5
million, breaking the previous record
set by “Jurassic Park: The Lost World”
with $26.1 million.

“Phantom Menace” opened in
2,970 theaters across the United States
and Canada on about 5,500 screens.

Here in Lexington, the masses be-
gan arriving at the State Theater early
for the door opening at 1 1 p.m. Fresh-
man Ivan Gonzales was one of those
who did so.

“It was really the thrill of seeing the
initial showing that mattered the
most,” Gonzales said. “I was expect-
ing a lot.”

Senior Bill Overbaugh agreed that
the mood of the audience was high.

“There was just this incredible
spirit, I’ve never been a member of an
audience like that for a movie,”

Overbaugh said. “Everybody cheered
when it ﬁnished.”

However, according to Gonzales,
the movie simply did not live up to all
the hype that came before it.

“It really didn’t impact me as much
as I thought it would,” Gonzales said.
“It hardly managed to keep me awake.
There were too many special effects,
and the plot was not convincing,
which was not much different from the
original movies.”

Many agreed that the accompany-
ing hype did the movie more harm than
good.

“There was so much to live up to,”
senior Drew Wendelken said. “I was
expecting so much. It was an incred-
ible movie, but had it’s downfalls. But
I was not disappointed.”

Whether critics approve or not,
“The Phantom Menace” set a new box
ofﬁce record for its first ﬁve days of
release. However, it did not manage to
pass the mark made two years ago by
“Jurassic Park: The Lost World.”

What has been billed as “one of
the most widely anticipated movies in
history,” grossed about $61.8 million

Student investment society takes stock

By Mike Crittenden

STAFF WRITER

More than a year after first set-
ting out to spend the University’s
money, the Williams Investment So-
ciety is happy to ﬁnd itself safely in
the black.

Given an initial balance of $1 mil-
lion dollars by the Board of Trustees
with which to invest in stock, the WIS
has shaken off an initial loss to ﬁnish
this school year with a portfolio val-

“ued at slightly over $1 million dollars.

“We were hit hard last summer by
the falling market and our balance was
down to $800,000,” said WIS co-ex-
ecutive director Taylor Beaupain.
“We have done much better this year
and have shown some positive
growth in our portfolio.”

The Williams Investment Society
was started last February and serves
a dual purpose according to co-direc-
tor Trey Kuppin.

“The purpose of the Society is two-
fold: ﬁrst, to give interested students
practical knowledge about the stock
market, and second, to make a proﬁt,”
said Kuppin. “The Board of Trustees
is equally concerned with both the
educational and the proﬁt aspects of
the Society.”

The WIS is regulated by the Uni-
versity Investment Committee and
has a strongly regimented procedure
for investing in stocks. Headed by
Beaupain and Kuppin, the WIS is di-
vided into Industry groups who re-
search and make proposals to the so-
ciety on prospective investments.
The groups then vote on whether or
not they will purchase a stock with
the ﬁnal decision going to Kuppin
and Beaupain. Kuppin says the pro-
cess helps the group take some of the
risk out of the often perilous stock
market.

“The process is very decentralized
and guarantees nothing is done with-

out a lot of thought,” explained
Kuppin.

In addition, the investment oppor-
tunities of the group are also limited,
with the group sticking to almost ex-
clusively to equities. The group is not
allowed to invest in bonds and can-
not write options. The group is
helped by their faculty advisers, pro-
fessors Anderson and Holliday. Next
year Professor Charles Phillips of the
economics department will advise the
group along with new management
professor, Professor Culpepper.

Currently the WIS has invest-
ments in popular companies such as
Wal-Mart and Dell, as well as firms
such as Chase Manhattan and MCI
World.

Members of the investment soci-
ety are chosen after a rigorous se-
lection and recruitment process.
Though the members of the group
are mostly C-School majors, contrary
to popular belief, the group is open

to students of all majors and is try-
ing hard to diversify its membership.
Both Beaupain and Kuppin said that
it was hard to find students of other
majors who have the interest neces-
sary.

“It isn’t just a C-School major
thing, and we have encouraged stu-
dents from all departments to apply,”
Kuppin said. “We want to integrate
with the campus more and get every-
one involved in this thing. It just hap-
pens that C-School majors usually
have more enthusiasm and interest to
spend time on the stock market.”

Looking toward the summer ahead,
both Kuppin and Beaupain seem op-
timistic about the possibilities for the
1999-2000 school year.

“We are a little over a year old and
I think are now headed in the right
direction,” Kuppin said. “Our goal is
not just a high proﬁt, but also an edu-
cation and experience. I am really look-
ing forward to next year.”

in North American ticket sales over
the weekend. “The Lost World”
pulled in $72.2 million during the Me-
morial Day holiday weekend of 1997.
However the ﬁve-day tally for “Phan-
tom Menace” reached $102.7 million,
outclassing “The Lost World” by al-
most $4 million.

Locally, moviegoers complained
that Jake Lloyd (Anakin Skywalker)
had poor script to work with. In addi-
tion, some were upset that they didn’t
get to keep the “really cool” ticket
stubs as souvenirs.

Most however, were impressed with
the movie, and highly recommended
it.

“I loved it,” Overbaugh said. ‘I
thought the plot was a little slower
than some of the other movies, but the
special effects and the way that you
learned about the background of the
movie more than made up for it. It had
a lot of surprises. I was really im-
pressed by Liam Neeson’s acting.”

Junior Andy Stewart summed it up:

“Don’t believe the critics,” he said.
“It was a good ﬂick.”

 

photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Editor

Senior David Lehman surrenders his ticket to “Phantom
Menace” at the Lexington premiere at the State Theater.

May 24, 1999
OPINION:

W&LIFE:

The summer in Lex?

SPORTS:

Cilia ‘ﬁling-tum ilﬁlii

The much-awaited end of the 250“

Patrick Hall and Cap’n Dick Smith.

PAGE 2

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

 

 

 

PAGE 2

OPﬁ?I1oN

 

MAY 24, 1999

 

S TAFF
TIUIURIIAL

Who else is still all riled up from the excitement as this
momentous 250'“ year winds to a close? We don’t know
about you, but between all the banners and balls we barely
had time for the responsibility symposium! And we’ve
never gotten so much learning, leadership and honor in all
our lives! We don’t know how they managed to pack so
much fun into a single academic year, but leave it to those
wacky deans to pull it all off.

Fantastic jobs guys, just fantastic, and I’ll be sure to
stop by for the big 3-0-0 when I’m old and established and
have a nice vapid trophy wife to bring back to campus like
the rest of our alums.

By the way, didn’t you just love the trophy wife collec-
tion on alumni weekend? That was the highlight of my
year. All those thirty-fortyish Southern women with their
sixty-seventyish wealthy husbands. Every trophy wife was
the same: had the same short-cropped hair cut, the same
sickeningly sappy “How are yeeeeeeeew?” Southern pleas-
antries, the same face, the same breasts (all custom made
by the same surgeon in Atlanta, no doubt).

The most frightening part about alumni weekend was
that occasionally you’d see some hot chick walking around
campus so you’d go try to put the ol’ moves on her. Then
you get closer and notice she has a nametag that says
something like “Mrs. C. Royce Pendelsworthy IV, class of
’44” and you’re thinking, “geez, my dad was in diapers
when her husband was graduating from college” and
you’re left with a mixed feeling —— you’re kinda proud of
the old guy for still being able to get it up, but at the same
time you’re disgusted beyond belief.

Anyway . . .

When we return to the Hill in the fall, we’ll find our-
selves ensconced in the less-than-momentous 251st year
of our school’s proud history. But does that mean we should
forget about everything we celebrated this year?

The answer, of course, is yes.

So good-bye, 250'“, and good riddance. But, hey, things
weren’t all bad for the 98-99 regular season. At least not a
single SNU got a scrotum shom this year.

/I

  

, uote of the week:
(i

“If I were a woman, I
would spend my entire
life amassing a fortune so
that I could buy Ricky
Martin.”

— Anonymous senior guy

}}

Gilt: ﬁling-tum Iﬁhi

Executive Editor Polly Doig
Associate Editor Hollister Hovey
News Editor Dan Grattan

W&Life Editors Elianna Marziani
Ginger Phillips
Frances Groberg
Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin
Heather McDonald
Emily Barnes

Ali Soydan

Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Last Word Editor
Copy Editor

Photo Editor

Online Editor

Senior Editor Tarah Grant

Jason Williams
Matt Lorber
Lionel Brown

Business Manager
Advertising Directors
Circulation Director

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wlu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

Phun Phi Pheature ideas for next year

We at the Phi are always looking to improve our paper.
Sure, we could sit proudly on our laurels as the third-best
paper on campus, but for us, that’s not enough. And we
won’t stop improving until . . . well . . . until Spring Term
again when apathy always sets in. (By the way, you like
our Spring Term four-page rush—jobs?)

Next year when we return to W&L we’re going to insti-
tute a lot of exciting new features. Here’s a sneak peak at
what you can expect from your
phriends at the Phi:

  

Centerfolds! Check out our
hot upcoming spread, “the girls of
the chemistry department.” Look
out, baby, ‘cuz these isotopes are definitely radioactive
and they’re burning up the page! A centerfold so hot it’s
guaranteed to fog up your safety goggles.

Crying a
darn river...

The problem with humanity is that we’re not really com-
fortable with happiness. So maybe that’s oversimplifying
things a teensy bit, and really, that’s just one of the prob-
lems with humanity. Regardless, it makes us nervous, not to
mention substantially quieter, when we can’t complain. No
matter how well things are going, there’s always something
wrong.

   

This is why  , _ _
the Phi can de- ‘air  L1V1n’ la Vida Loca
vote virtually it ' Polly Doig U)

the entirety of
this page every
week to complaints, and never have to publish a blank sheet
of paper. Whether it’s us whining about administration, the
administration whining about you, you whining about us,
or some alum whining about the loss of the freshmen beanie
policy, there’s simply always something to bitch about.

I noticed this last summer, during what I fondly refer to as
the Internship From Hell, when I wasn’t given enough to do.
I was forced to sit in front of a computer and spend mass
quantities of time playing solitaire. This would be a god-
send to a rational person, particularly one who just com-
pleted an academic year that included four hours of sleep.
But I’ve been termed many things in life, and rational just
isn’t on the list. _ I g

No, instead I began to daydream of the time when school
would start back up and I could continue with the noble pro-
cess of educating myself. I bemoaned the lack of hundreds of
pages of nightly reading, of term papers, of cumulative ﬁ-
nals, of the good old days when the Phi guaranteed an all-
nighter each and every week. Jeez, those sure were the days.

And now, as we wrap up the last week of school, there’s
plenty for everyone to gripe about, mainly all those things
that I was so looking forward to last summer. And as we
finally buried the bicenquinquagenary that took at least that
long to prepare for, not to mention celebrate, it’s apparent
that we grumbled about just as much this year as any other.
Ostrich. SFHB procedures. Online registration. Rich Balzer.
Sorority housing. The ever-popular self-govemance. Un-
armounced delivery girls. Rumors of a parking garage.

The only way we accomplish anything is by taking stands.
The best sight I saw this year was 50 pissed-off students
crammed into an EC meeting, demanding accountability for a
deﬁnition of the only thing that binds us all together— honor.

Whatever Washington and Lee’s faults, each of us has a
chance to make our opinions heard. But when ﬁve percent
of us choose to do so, it leaves the other 95 percent of y’all
stuck listening to me bitch every week, which is hardly rep-
resentative. (I’d heard stories of conservatives on this cam-
pus.) Don’t think I can’t keep it up until my graduation (only
31 academic weeks away for those marking calendars), but
isn’t it time that somebody else got a word in sideways?

Before they call your name to pick up your sheepskin,
and before the only opinion of yours the school cares about
is thaton checkwriting, give ’em hell.

Defending elitism

Last week the Trident published two (one wasn’t enough)
letters urging us to stop making ﬁrn of townies because it

Community Service
Kevin McManemin ’00

 

makes us look like elitists. Actually, I agree with this, but still
don’t see anything wrong with making fun of townies.

Come on. Society claims to value education, and the very
word “value” implies that some things are of greater worth
than others. If we’re going to say that everyone is equal, no

matter what

,. their educa-

Q. .1 . tional or cul-

  tural level,

 then how the

hell are we

going to find people daft enough to blow 80K on a W&L
diploma?

Now let me make a distinction — I’m not talking about all
Lexingtonians being grossly inferior. A lot of them are good,
intelligent people.

I’m talking about the dirty, unkempt, unenlightened, un-
employed rednecks, with scraggly hair and Confederate Flag
tattoos and drawls so thick it sounds like they’re talking
with a tennis ball in their mouths, those with no appreciation
of music beyqnd Lynrd Skynrd, those who just want to live
life lazing around getting drunk.

Hang on a minute, I just described half of this campus.

To modify my original point, we’re no better than townies.
In fact, we’re worse, because we should know better. They
should be the ones making fun of us. Shame on you, shame
on me, shame on us all. Now could you pass that dip cup?

 

Rear View mirror

best coverage of all the local raves. (Summer rave sched-
ule: June -— none. July — none. August —— none.) A new
weekly column by Radiohead’s wacky Thom Yorke prom-
ises to keep us all in stitches. And did someone say polka?
Oh, no? Never mind, then.

Fashion! A fashion page telling you which brand of
khaki cut-offs will be turning the heads on the runways of
Paris and Milan this month. A section
for the gay man in all of us!

Food! Restaurant reviews of all Lex’s

when and where and with what props. For instance. did
you know that last weekend I hooked up with three hot
blondes and. . . oh, who am I kidding. This column brought
to you by women everywhere. “Women — gossip is what
we do.”

Hazing! Helpful Hazing Hints from Pledgemaster Hell-
oise. Learn to give that brutal pledgeship program the “per-
sonal touch.” This year, why not make line-ups extra—spe-
cial with just the right decorations? Did you know that you
can make your own paddle at home for much less than

 Kevin MCManem1-n «O0 hippest bistros, from Berky’s to Burger

Kmg.

Movies! Reviews of the latest box-office hits as soon

what you’d pay at the bookstore?

Zeppo, the Talking Mule Advice Column!

they get them in the State theater. This week: Three Men

and a Little Lady. Next week: Stop! Or my Mom Will Shoot.

Sizzling Gossip! Find out who did what with whom

Everything you’d expect and more from a talking mule.

Silly Names! With people named Polly and Hollister
now running the show, the Phi guarantees the silliest names
on campus this side ofFlash Floyd and Kip Pirkle.

ri>u= 

 
 
  

1999: I fell and couldn’t get up

In one more week, I’ll be halfway
through college. And quite honestly,
I’m scared. I’m not afraid of the real
world or of leaving the Washington
and Lee bubble. I know I will need time
to adjust to the change in situation,
but I’m not scared about the specif-
ics. I’m scared that I get to start over
again.

I have sometimes wondered what
it would be like to
pick up and just-
leave. Not to go
home, or to go with
friends, but to just
leave. Perhaps I’d
move out to some
small town in the southwest, get a job
in a diner or something. Maybe I’d go
to a big city and lose myself in the
bustle. No matter where I ended up,
I’d be leaving and going somewhere
else. I like the idea of starting over in
theory, but theory and reality are gen-
erally two different things.

I have found that there are only so
many times you can start over in life.
Every time I manage to start over —
beginning high school, entering col-
lege, etc. — it seems that I need yet
another chance to start that start—over

   

 Heather McDonald ’O1

again. Why is this? Do I not learn from
my mistakes? Furthermore, why can’t
I ever get it right? I get another chance
to start over next year, but will it do me
any good at all? Will everything be
okay in the end — eventually?

Much of this questioning is be-
cause of the past year. I once read in
some book by some expert on some-
thing that the sophomore year is the
r o u g h e st .
That’s put-
ting itrnildly.
Many of my
classes
could have
been used
as torture chamber devices. Many of
the friends I used to eat with last year
were now far, far away in Red Square,
Davidson Park or Woods Creek.
Everybody’s schedules conflicted.
There were people who I don’t even
know who I saw more than my own
roommates. I thought, like many stu-
dents here, that spring term would
cure all. I was wrong. I keep thinking
things will soon get better, that if I just
do this or that, things will be perfect
soon enough.

And yet, as I sit here and wallow in

Coffee Talk

my pool of pity, I do have a shred of

»
II‘

optimism ﬂoating about. Now, maybe A

you’ve had a great year. Maybe you’ve
had a great life. But I believe that ev-
eryone has one of these years at some-
time in his or her life. Sometimes people
have a few in a row. Most people I know
(sophomores or otherwise) have had
hellish years. Sickness or death in the
family, personal problem s, even simply
a general disillusionment from escap-
ing the teenage years and hitting the
big 2-0 ~— it seems that it’s just been
one of those years. And the only con-
solation is what is the initial fear.

For better or worse, I do get to start
over next year. I’m hoping this past
year was me paying my dues to the
Fates, and next year will be the reward.
Hopefully I will have learned from my
mistakes this past year, and that when
I eventually have to start over yet
again in the real world, I will not fear
my mistakes that might happen. but
will not commit the same mistakes I
already have.

To the seniors this year, I say con-
gratulations a thousand times over.
Good luck in all you do. To the rest of
y’all — have a restful and wonderful
summer. I’ll see you next year.

Dear Editor,

the project.

their years at W&L.

Again, my heartfelt thanks.
Brian Richardson

LETTERS 10 THE EDITOR

Honoree expresses gratitude

I’d like to extend my deepest gratitude for being named
recipient of this year’ s Ring-tum Phi Award for public ser-
vice. As many in the student body realize, the award should
be looked on as recognition of the efforts of hundreds of
people, including dozens of W&L students, in building
Lisa’s House, Project Horizon’s shelter for victims of do-
mestic violence. I especially want to thank David Sugerman,
Josh Beckharn and the other members of the student Habi-
tat for Humanity chapter, who have worked tirelessly on

Dozens of other students have volunteered with Project
Horizon’s hotline and in other capacities as well during

For me, the Ring-tum Phi Award is confirmation that
this student bddy recognizes the involvement of so many
in this project, and the real need for Lisa’s House.

Editors note: Professor Richardson was selected by
the editorial board of The Ring-tum Phi as one of four
recipients of the Phi award Other recipients included

Dear Editor,

Neil Penick, and seniors Amy Frazier and Clzﬂ Woolley.
Walk-a—thon successful

I just wanted to take the opportunity to thank all of those
who participated in the walk-a-thon that was held here a few
weeks ago to raise money for the van used to transport my
brother. The major participants included the women’s la-
crosse, soccer, basketball, and volleyball teams, and thanks
to everyone else as well. I also want to thank each and every
person that made a donation to the cause. My family, my
brother, and I all appreciated everyone’s support very much. ‘‘
Because of such great support, I was able to take over $2100
home with me to donate at the actual walk-a-thon spon-
sored by Aid Association for Lutherans and our church.

I also want to personally thank Assistant Women’s Soc-
cer and Lacrosse Coach, Lorraine Taurassi, for all of her
efforts in organizing the walk-a-thon that we had here. She
was responsible for “taking the ball and running with it” and
without her organization and initiative, it would not have
been as successful as it was.

Thanks again to everyone.

Karin Treese ’99

K

 

. some research dealing with

MAY 24, 1999

PAGE 3

Summer days: livin’ it up in Lex

By Elianna Marziani
F EA Tl/RES EDITOR

Summer. . . lazy days at home, sitting out in
the sun. hanging out at the pool or the beach,
reading. watching movies, traveling, working
a little at a local store. . . sound familiar? While
this might sound like some of your past sum-

, mers. this is not the summer many Washing-

ton and Lee students have chosen for them-
selves this year. A surprising number of stu-
dents are staying in good old Lexington for
the summer, working intem-
ships and doing research with
University faculty.

Rising senior Kirsten
Malm is staying in Lexington
this summer to work in the
economics department with
Professor Michael Anderson.
Malm explained that Ander-
son is working to co—author

the effects of free trade on
lower wage. unskilled work-
 Malm is going to help
Anderson with some of this
research by doing some re-
gression analysis and work-
ing on the statistical end ofit.
Malm took Economics 203
(Quantitative Models) from
Anderson during winter term,
and in February Anderson
‘asked Malm to stay during the
stiu'.m«>r to help him with his
i‘ese.ncli.

Malm is looking forward to
gaining some valuable practical experience.

" its good to have experience withjust do-
ing the regression models,” she said. “It gives you
be"‘.er insight into what people do with econom-
ics.“

She hopes that this experience will help her
with a major in economics and getting ajob.

;\.h,oiit her stay in Lexington, Malm said,
"I'm looking forward to it . . . I came in as a
transfer strident, and I’m graduating early, so
this is my only summer as a W&L student.”

lar from dreading a boring summer, she said,
“I think it’ll be fun. lt’s got to be a very differ-
ent place over the summer.” Malm said she
has heard good things about Lexington in the

 

summer from other students who have stayed
here before, and she is looking forward to try-
ing out the experience for herself. Two of her
good friends are staying in an apartment with
her, so the experience is promising to be a good
one for her.

Rising junior Melanie Baker is also spend-
ing her summer in Lexington, interning with
the University in Tucker Hall. She will be do-
ing some technical work, working with web
pages, capturing and compressing video, scan-
ning, helping to install new computers and soil-

to doing all there is to do in Rockbridge County.
“One of my goals is to ﬁnally get to Goshen,”
she said. “I’ll miss being home with my family
and friends, but I think the experience will deﬁ-
nitely be worth it.”

Rising sophomore Veronica Griffith is yet
another of the many W&L students to be stay-
ing in Lexington. She will be working with Pro-
fessor Michael Pleva of the chemistry depart-
ment, creating labs for Chemistry 106: Disor-
der and Chaos. They are hoping to change
this course from a spring tenn, 3-credit course,

to a 4-credit fall term lab sci-
ence that Grifﬁth said would

Photo courtesy of the Calyx

Melanie Baker ’01 and Veronica Griffith ’02 are two of the many
Washington and Lee students who are staying in Lexington this
summer to work in internships with the University or its faculty.

ware, etc.

“The great thing is, this is notjust ajob,”
she said. “I’ll be learning all sorts of techno-
logical stuff which will help me work more in-
tensively with the faculty. I’ll become fluent in
Java, etc.”

Not only excited about the internship expe-
rience, Baker is also looking forward to two
extra months in Lexington.

“I can’t wait to live in Lexington over the
summer... I’ve heard Lex is a different town
over the summer, and I’d love to see this for
myself. I love Lexington as it is, and I’m look-
ing forward to getting to really live in and ex-
perience it,” she said. She is looking forward

 

“let non-science majors ﬁnd
a more interesting way to
fulfill the [general education]
science requirement.”

Pleva asked Griffith to
stay and help him this sum-
mer at the beginning of win-
ter term, after having her as
his student in Chemistry 1 12
and its lab course during fall
term. Grifﬁth plans to be ei-
ther a neuroscience or chem-
istry pre-med major, so she
is looking forward to gain-
ing some practical experi-
ence.

According to Griffith, “It
will help me learn how to de-
velop and write up labs,” a
skill which she feels is very
important for medical
school.

Will she break our streak
of students who are excited
to be staying in Lexington over the summer?
Not a chance. She knows a lot of people who
are staying here over the summer, plus she will
be involved in the Summer Scholars chorus.

“I’m looking forward to it,” she said. “It’s
going to be a little strange — I’m used to
walking around the comer and seeing people I
know. It’ll be lonely at times, but I’ll find things
to do, people to hang out with.”

Many other students are staying to help in
a variety of tasks, from working in Lee Chapel
to helping with the computer system and ev-
erything in between. So the Lexingtonians
looking forward to a W&L-free summer might
have a surprise coming to them.

mores, 402 juniors, 396

D-hall facts:

_ cards this year

 -4D-hall lost
about 17600

‘L ‘amber-colored

this year ,
9 ‘—-D-hall
sponsored 23
special events
( j_for students

—— by the end of May, D-hall will have
-served 198,700 meals this year

—— D-hall served 312 different entrees to its
students this year
—— Mr. Bitz received about 80 comment

drink glasses ‘

-— the University hosted over 82 lectures
from visiting speakers this year
—— 6 new clubs sought official University

— this year there were 1,696 undergradu-
ates and 370 law students enrolled at W&L

Fun facts:’98-’99 revisited

By Eliarma Marziani
FEA TURES EDITOR
As the 1998-99 school year closes, it is

time to look backward. Here are some little
known, occasionally interesting facts
about the 1998-99 school year at‘W&L:

—— there were 456 freshmen,436 sopho-

seniors, and 367

law students seeking degrees at W&L at
the beginning of fall term; 449 freshmen,
427 sophomores, 401 juniors, 393 seniors,
and 362 law students seeking degrees at

W&L as of the beginning of winter term

professors this year
-— 28 foreign countries
by students this year

 
 
 
    
    

-— W&L’s endowment is $818,248,000
—— W&L faculty included 182 full—time
undergraduate and 34 full-time law

were represented

—- as of fall term,
the top 6 states
for student
representation
were: VA - 192,
TX-136, MD-136,
NY-1 12, 103 PA,
GA-101; though it
sometimes seems
like everyone you
meet is from
Mobile, Alabama,
“only” 62
attended W&L

students were this year; tied for
involved in last place, with 0
approximately students repre-
315 sporting senting them,
events this year were Nevada (though a large number of

students do ﬁnd their way there for Feb.
break each year. . .), Montana, Hawaii,
North Dakota and Wyoming

recognition this year -- 91.6 percent of the student population
General (pardon the pathetic pun!) facts was white/Caucasian this year, as

’ about the school: opposed to 91.7 percent white/Caucasian
— U.S. News ranked W&L 1 1th for last year...so who says the administration isn’t
undergraduate liberal arts colleges and actively seeking out minority students?
universities, and 20th for law school And ﬁnally...

-— W&L celebrated its 250* birthday this
year... just in case you hadn‘t heard!

9

.‘ﬂéo'@w/w.eJw 07¢ as-¢O6'U.

l .74; .%%/—/am  0'4 deeming a dwaobaew
maaaaﬂew /946 Zée /993-2000 acac/emo'c
.%aJe¢ceM‘ea/ ﬂcwclt/‘ed 44054/J coniar/0/’ {A6 gpéé air

60%.

W

J

\

Tuesday, May
8 p.m. A p p I i e d
Johnson Theater, Lenfest Cen-

Wednesday, May 26

12-1 1:45 p.m. Web registration clean-up.
Last chance to register for fall term.

1"

, Upcoming events. . .

 

25
Music Recital.
ter.

8 pm.

Saturday, May 29

9 am.

Monday, May 31

5 pm.
Tuesday, June 1
5 p.m.

’99. duPont Gallery.

Wednesday, June 2
11 am.
Front Lawn.

Thursday, June 3

11 am.

Senior Voice Recital. Mollie
Harmon ’99. Johnson Theater, Lenfest Center.

Undergraduate exams begin.

Degree applications for December 1999 due.
University Registrar, Reid Hall.
Undergraduate exams end.

Gallery Reception. Senior art
thesis by Mary Hampton Yeilding ’99,
Stephanie Frank ’99 and Caroline Keene

Undergraduate Baccalaureate.

Undergraduate Commencement
Front lawn. (Rain plan: Warner Center)

*

*

 

@ 
F RAMEWORKS GALLERY

1 N. Main Street, downtown Lexington, Virginia (540) 464-6464

Monday — Friday
10 a.m. — 6p.m.

9 a.m. — 4 p.m.

Civil War art and memorabilia
Robert E. Lee 8 Stonewall Jackson War Date Documents
W&L, VMI and Lexington art and collectibles
Limited edition art
Custom framing

Open:

Saturday

 

*

*

*

storage

It's that easy!

UNIVERSITY CLEANERS
STORAGE OF WINTER
CLOTHING PROGRAM

University Cleaners offers a storage
program for your winter clothing

We will clean and press your winter
clothes and put them in our moth-free

There is no need to transport clothes

home and back in the fall

We will bill you for the cleaning of
your storage during the summer so
that all you have to do is stop by and
pick up your clothes in the fall

Call 463-3622 with any questions

Ellie iﬁing-tum iﬂlti ' ~

SPORTS 9

 

    

   

   
   

 
     
 
  

 

    
 

 

PAGE 4 MAY 24, 1999
, '24
“Hall” of Fame Attitude ”
Semor second baseman Pat Hall shows life is a game to be played '4
By Tod Williams more season of.376, Hallhitwell over But head coach Jeff Stickley
STAFF WRITER .300 as a General. Hall has also led the knows the departure of Hall will take
team in doubles this year, and commit- more from the team than just a good .‘.

To Patrick Hall, baseball is more than ted only three errors. second baseman. "
a game. And according to this second Hall knows whom he owes his four “We’ll miss what Pat does on the
baseman, he willtake more away from years of success to. “[Coach Jeff] ﬁeld,” Stickley said, “but his biggest
his four years as a General than just Stickley and [Coach] Jack Baizley have contribution has always been his lead-
friends and a farrner’s tan. nurtured me so much. I’m so grateful to ership. Pat’s the only three-time cap- £-

“Baseball has provided me with so have worked under them for four years.” tain I’ve ever had,” he said. “He prob- ~
many good life lessons,” Hall said. Always the scholar, Hall sees ably doesn’t even think about being a
“You’ll fail far more than you’ll ever Stickley’s coaching as laissez-faire. leader, it’s just how he is.”
succeed out there. The biggest thing “He’s really a player’s coach,” Hall Stickley also knows the benefits P
is learning to deal with the failure.” said. “He provides the instruction and that come from natural leaders like Hall. ’

Hall has always looked at baseball the leadership, but he lets you play “[His leadership] is something the
much like life itself: a battle that must whatever role you want to on the field.” other guys pick up on, which you re-
be fought everyday, but a blessing to Hall appreciates W&L’s staff even ally need on a team.”
be able to ﬁght. “There is no effort more after his high school experience. Junior shortstop David Hanson » at
without shortcomings, but it’sthe per- “I played for a total [jerk] in high realizes the value of Hall’s leadership.
son who can shake off those short- school. He ran a lot of great players “I’ve been playing with him all three
comings that ﬂourishes,” he said. away from the game,” he said. “I real- years I’ve been here, so it’ll be a huge

Though Hall has had to ﬁght hard, ize how serious a job coaches have. difference next year without him. He’s if
he surely knows success. Just se- They’re molding kids’ character and just an intense guy whose presence is '
lected to the All-ODAC fnst team, Hall their lives.” - always felt.”  
set new career records for W&L with Hall certainly has chosen a posi— But Hanson agrees with Stickley
his 142 hits, 93 runs scored and 90 RBI. tion of leadership on the team. A three- regarding the gap Hall’s loss will leave ,  ' n ‘ 1 2
He was also selected to the ODAC All- year captain, he said he’s honored to in the roster. “We ought to be alright 7 _ - r , L
Toumamentteam. have been inaposition of leadership. defensively, but Pat’s leadership is 4‘ I ‘ '

Hall has been a pillar of offensive “I respect and love every person on what we’ll really miss.” .0 ' .. ’ .0
consistency for the Generals, but he the team,” he said. “There’s a strong Regarding his career as a General,  ' 
knows the batter is always handi- bond this year, more than the past.” Hall said the team “made a good run _ ‘ ' ’ ‘ " ,
capped. “The pitchers always beat you Though the baseball program is on my freshman year, but the next two ‘_  ‘ .
somehow,” he laughs. the rise in Lexington, Hall thinks the years we really dropped the ball.” ' J .

But his love of the game is no Generals’ may have some roles to ﬁll “I think that’s why the post-sea- . '
laughing matter. “It’s a kids’ game with the loss of this years seniors. “The son depression hasn’t really kicked in '  _ ,  ‘
played by men. There’s something so loss of E.J. [Murphy] will deﬁnitely be yet,” he said. “I guess I’m just so V . ' 
serious about it,” Hall said. “I just the team’s biggest. He’s basically there proud of the team this year. We went a ‘ __ . ~
love the competition.” to help you win, even if you don’t see long way and really made some giant . _ . p  _

Hall can only name one thing he his name in the box score.” strides for the program.” ' = I ’, ' 3"-
would change about his career as a Gen-    i
eral: “I wouldn’t have played that T ’ . - .  7

icku football Oamem freshman ear.” '
P H511 is spegking of the tackle, that Saturday’  9 99
irijured :is slfioullder, an in1jtf11rythfz:1twilll (Above) Dick Smith, son of Cap’n Dick 4.
P ague 1”‘ °” ° rest ° is i 6‘ A ' Smith, throws out the first i-pitch to Frank ’
g::::§t}i1o 3:52:56 tl::::gﬁ(;'i1;r:1:I:)f]at1::‘: Surface, Rector of the Board of Trustees.
:1ll1S(:)url::l-e}:1{l31a1lrrr'i, since Hall (Left), The two m_en—s‘ha_ke hands as they "

That shoulder injury caused Hall to walk ovff the ﬁeld’ ; V A 7
miss four games early in his sophomore  ’° "5" ' I if I
season. Those have been the only four
times he wasn’t in the Generals’ start-
ing lineup throughout his career. "

Planning to enter the Marine Corps
in June following his graduation, Hall’s .
acceptance has been deferred until -
October so his shoulder can be evaIu- ’ ’ A
ated. Even then, his acceptance is un-
sure. “Right now, my life’s a mess,”
he said.

But Hall has found the proverbial
silver lining to this cloud. “I remind J
myself of that aﬁemoon everyday,” he
said. “But it taught me that in one sec-
ond, I can make a decision that could
change my life forever.” ° '

Hall has said that if he cannot enter  I  y
the Marines, he may try to play ball in
Europe. Other than that, his days as a
player may be over. Yet baseball will
never completely be out of his life. He 35
already has plans to coach this summer.

Though he’s in limbo now, Hall
knows he can never do anything he does
 SEEKS SALES MANAGER PORANY
my options, and I believe that if I’m pas- "
sionate about something, then my dedi-
cation will be endless, but I can’t turn
that drive on if I don’tlove something.”  N  I i 3 A ..

Hall certainly has turned that drive . Photo by Pat Hinely/University Photographer 1’
0“ O“ the ﬁeld Batting 345 this year Ready for anything: Pat Hall shows his prowess in the ﬁeld.
and a career-high average his sopho-

Econo potential 3K mom ‘
LOCI E mmmgl EH”: t 3
9 _
—]O0lBl/1 9K mom ]0l/lS€DCC€- »
540-463-7371 . -

lentlaenefits or —timeewq0loyvv1eV1t .

Championship at _é PS, I

Taconic .. I Golf .: Club __ ' "

,,,,,,,,m,,9,,,,,,,,,. , f Pa rents discount .1‘

Burrice's ‘four-routicl,_.;to” o’ . . __
,,_,,_,,_,,__,,f4w,,,,,,,,,,,,, Newly renovated
. oﬂf the pace set by the individiiall __ '
,.,medalist,.C?h§£l.C9lIi;is-,df  » Free H BO_ Wlth rem ote
~r°<?is*<-C9119‘:   ~ —No smoking rooms — ~
 W and - . t I
temoon and ﬁnis I our er- __
Farm, , Free Contmen a
is breakfast .
J

 

