‘I

€

"378. 7:35

VOLUME 102, NO. 20

Two arrested
for burglary

County residents captured
through use of checks stolen
from students’ country house
during Christmas break

By Christie Phillips
STAFF WRITER

Two men were arrested last week for the burglary of a
Washington and Lee University student country house
over Christmas break.

David Jason Fix and James Edwin Lemon, both
Rockbridge County residents, were charged with grand
larceny and breaking and entering.

“They stole a lot of stuff, like TVs and a Sony
PlayStation, but we got most ofit back,” saidjunior Will
Baker who lives at the burglerized house. “I didn’t get my
TV back because the guys apparently threw it in the river.
That’s a smart thing to do.”

Baker and his housemates reported the burglary to
the Rockbridge County Sheriffs department when they
got back from Christmas break.

“There didn’t appear to be any forced entrance,” said
junior Will Ogilvie, another resident. “The deputies said
they could only check the pawn shops around the area
for clues, but they told us not to count on anything.”

Apparently the burglars didn’t need much help from
the police in getting caught.

“They had stolen my checkbook,” said junior Jim
Wilboum, a third housemate. “I didn’t realize until I was
alerted of a $550 overdraw on my account.”

Once authorities realized that the burglars were writ-
ing checks, they traced the checks to find the men. One

,check led authorities straight to the burglars.

“They ordered a pizza and had it delivered to their
house and paid for it with one of my checks,” said
Wilbourn. “All the police had to do was look up the ad-
dress of the delivery. We’re not dealing with the bright-
est thieves here.” .

Fix and Lemon had also stolen an electronic personal
planner from Wilboum.

“They erased all my information and put in all their
friends and connections,” said Wilboum. “So when the
police got hold of that, they started calling all the num-
bers to find out where our stuff was.”

In addition to burgling the country house, Fix and
Lemon had stolen equipment from three fraternity house
basements.

“They took speakers from two fraternity houses, and
sound equipment from a third,” said Sheriff R. W. Day.
“Some of these items they had sold or given away, but
we’ve tried to return them to the Owners.”

Fix and Lemon were arrested Jan. 25. Lemon posted
bond last Friday, and Fix bonded on Tuesday.

“I’m mad they got off so quickly,” said Wilboum.
“We’re doing everything we can to get them back in jail.”

The winning Fiji team took home a $300 prize.

Nob.ody’s home. . . or is there?

U112 iftittg-tu

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

‘iii’/\.‘7~.‘~‘

LExINGToN, VIRGINIA 24450

111

tlmtfti G. LEVEIE‘-3N LIESRAHY
~§!N't ‘ = I '

U? ‘Z‘1S1T'Y

 

   

’ 7A\'-‘«"‘rlZ lpﬁ
if \’.\‘.:;L .: ~.'.~

 

FEB 0 9 ztitit/J’  ‘ or

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2000

Lip Sync. . . tamer than ever?

Though lacking in
debauchery, Lip
Sync made up for
it with the money

By Michael Crittenden

Assocu TE EDITOR

Washington and Lee students
packed the Student Activities Pa-
vilion Friday night to witness this
year’s Lip Sync competition, which
saw pledges painted blue, the
usual debauchery we have come
to expect, and the overall award
for best act going to Fiji for their
rendition of “Push It”.

Tame in comparison to previ-
ous shows, including the infamous
I998 show which included more
nudity, destruction, and lack of
taste than was ever thought pos-
sible, this year's show was quite
successful in raising money for
and promoting awareness of, SA-
RAH (Students Against
Rockbridge Area Hunger).

Each year, the money raised is
used to purchase food stuffs for
citizens in Rockbridge County
who are without. According to
Dining Services Director Jerry
Darrell, who is one of the leading
forces behind the Lip Sync, this
year's show was a huge success.

“It was a great show, as good
as any we have ever had,” Darrell
said. “We raised approximately
$850 at the door, and we believe
another $1,500 from people swip-
ing money home.”

The acts for the show mainly
consisted of each Greek
organization’s pledges performing
choreographed dances with very
little lip syncing going on. Some
standout acts included Sigma
Chi’s rendition of “Praise You” by
Fatboy Slim, and Beta’s Talking
Heads performance.

Not to be outdone, the sorori-
ties, who historically have had
much better acts than the fraterni-
ties, also put on a great show. One
of two-time defending champion
Chi Omega’s acts included girls

_ dressed in yellow “pledge shirts” get-

PUsIIIN’1T: The Fiji pledge class, under the guise of “Sexual Chocolate”
prize anyway during Friday night’s annual Lip Sync competition. All money raised benefitted SARAH.

ting mock-hazed by another girl act-
ing as a brother to the tune Of“I Will
Survive”.

In the end however, it was the
pledges from Fiji that took the crown.
The last to perform, the Fiji act in-
cluded a Chippendale-like strip show
when they took off tank-tops with
each of the five sororities written on
them. The act drew quite a response
from the mainly female audience,
which clapped long and hard for the
topless Fiji dancers.

According to Fiji pledge Ben
Bryant, the win was well deserved and
welcomed.

“We wanted to do a really good
job like the sophomores did last year,
and it was in the back of our minds
that we had a chance,” Bryant said.
“All we had to do was push it. . . push
it good.”

The show was hosted by senior
Dan Grattan, who is the student-head
of SARAH, and junior John Jensen,
who emceed the event.

DOMINATRIx?: Freshman Chi-O pledge Austin C

, skips the full monty but takes first

 

photo by Tiffany riedel/Assistant Photo Editor
alhoun in ﬁshnets and leather.

 

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

 

7 photo by Lisaiin/assistanhto Editor
Boys WITH BRAINS: Freshman Fiji pledge Brian Carmody scribbles down a question to an answer
during Wednesday night’s “Pledge Jeopardy”, sponsored by the Freshmen Leadership Council.

LPD and students

discuss problems

and city policies
By Max Smith

NEWS EDITOR

Fraternity noise violations and
MIPs were just some of the pressing
issues students tossed at local law
enforcement in last week’s “What
Are Your Rights?” discussion.

‘‘I hope tonight’s session will help
everyone gain some enlightenment
on both sides. . . [and] further agree-
ment on your status as citizen-stu-

dents,”imoderator Lad Sessions said.

Sponsored by the new student
organization, Living in Lexington as
Citizen-Students (LILACS), the talk
drew about 30 students who ques-
tioned police from Lexington and
Rockbridge County. Lexington Po-
lice ChiefBruce Beard, Rockbridge
County Sheriff R.W. Day, W&L se-
curity Director Mike Young and
everyOne’s favorite special enforce-
ment ofﬁcer Roger Clark were among
the panelists.

On the issue of alcohol. police
said they can cite anyone with open
container who is in view ofthe pub-
lic drinking, even ifthey’re on pri-

Getting to “know your rights”

vate property. Police can also charge
students with drunk in public ifthey
spot any sign of intoxication. They
insisted the charge is only to pro-
tect students from injuring them-
selves later. '
After Fall Terrn’s rash of early fra-
ternity party shutdowns, students
were anxious to hear how to avoid
them in the future. Police said every
fraternity should get a noise permit.
The city only allows parties to last
until ll a.m., but city council ex-
tended the party curfew to midnight
for W&L students. After midnight,

SEE ‘LILACS’ ON PAGE 2

 

February 7, 2000

OPINION:
Lame Lip Sync

(J11: ﬂing-tum iﬁlti

PAGE 3

Mysterious intruder doesn’t knock ﬁrst
or steal, just makes himself at home

By Christie Phillips

STAFF WRITER

Two country houses of female
Washington and Lee University stu-
dents have recently hosted some in-
truders while the owners were out.

The intruders are not there to
burgle the houses that they enter.

I They simply use the houses as if they

were their own homes, watching tele-
vision and relaxing on the couch.
They turn lights on at their leisure

and sometimes snoop through the
refrigerator.

“He never takes anything,” said
junior Virginia Brumby. “But it scared
us so much.”

Brumby and her roommates live
just outside of town on Sandbridge
Lane. With the belief Lexington and
the surrounding country to be fairly
safe, they have always left the back
door of their house unlocked.

“We don’t use the front door,”
said Brumby. “lt’s always locked and

bolted just for convenience so we
don’t have to hassle with it.”

When Brumby and her
housemates came home one day and
found the front door wide open, they
knew instantly that something was
wrong.

“We realized someone must be in
the house and we got so scared,” she
said. “We ran into a room and that’s
when we heard someone run down
the stairs and out the front door.”

Brumby called the sheriffs office,
but when deputies arrived, there was
no one near the house.

SEE ‘INTRUDER’ ON PAGE 2

W&LIFE:

It takes a campus. . .

SPORTS:
Basketball topples #1

LAsT WORD:
War on drugs

PAGE 4

PAGE 5

PAGE 6

WRESTLE MANIA: Freshman Alex
Poor grapples with his SVC foe.

 

photo by Lisa Lin/Assistant Photo Editor

 

 

PAGE 2

Ellie iﬁtng-tum iﬂhi

NEWS

FEBRUARY 7, 2000

Parking deck set to open March 1

By Max Smith

NEWS EDITOR

Lexington Special Enforcement Of-
ﬁcer R.D. Clark may have a lot less to
do come March 1.

The new parking deck should be
ﬁnished by the end of the month, ac-
cording to Mike _Iles, project superin-
tendent for the Haskell Co., the Jack-
sonville, F l. contractor building the
deck. The deck was originally set to
be completed in Jan.

“It's a moving target with the
weather,” Iles said. “The snow and
cold has created a lot of problems.”

Iles said freezing temperatures

cause problems when pouring con-
crete. The builders have tried to en-
close the deck and bring in kerosene
heaters to help keep the concrete
stable. The cold wasn’t the first prob-
lem encountered during construc-
tion. I
Local bedrock caused problems
when laying the foundation months
ago, Iles said. The rock directly un-
der the garage wasn’t hard enough
and builders had to drill deeper than
expected.

When completed, Washington and
Lee director of security Mike Young
said the new parking deck should
have better security than any other

parking facility in town.

“I’m totally satisﬁed with the se-
curity measures taken,” Young said.
“We didn’t pinch any pennies.”

The deck will hold several emer-
gency phones on every level and near
both elevators. A security camera sys-
tem will send several area shots to a
console in the security ofﬁce. A dis-
patcher will monitor the screens 24-
hours a day. The deck’s lighting will
be state-of-the-art in terms of safety
as well, Young said.

Young has also proposed to add
another ofﬁcer to general patrol.

“The new deck isn’t going to be a
place to worry,” Young said.

‘INTRUDER’ from page 1

The second encounter with the intruder followed the
same pattern.

“The house was cold when we came home, so we knew
the front door was open again,” Brumby explained. “We
ran into my housemate’s room, grabbed a butter knife
and turned on the alarm clock to scare anyone that was
in the house. It was stupid, but it’s what we thought
to do.”

When the women got up the nerve to search the
rest of the house they found that the TV and some
lights were on, but no one was there. Again they called
the police, who could find nothing when they came to
the house. '

“The police think it’s a weird townie who likes to
come in and use people’s houses,” said Brumby.
“We’rejust hoping it was no one too crazy. I think if it
was a murderer or something he would have confronted
us.”

Brumby and her housemates now lock all their doors
whenever they leave the house. Since they started
locking their doors, the women haven’t had any fur-
ther problems.

“Intruders are not real common, but things like that
happen once in a while,” said Sgt. Sutton of the Lex-
ington Police Department. “Most of these guys are
just freeloading, eating a free meal, sleeping, just sur-
viving I guess.”

‘LILACS’ from page 1

Junior Sanders Goodrich and her housemates also
had an intruder in their country house, located up the
road from Brumby’s house.

“Over Christmas, someone came and lived in our
house,” said Goodrich. “When we came back from
break there was food in the fridge that we hadn’t
bought, and previously locked bedroom doors were
unlocked.”

Goodrich and her housemates never encountered
the intruder.

“It looked like he just needed a place to hang out
for a couple of days,” she said.

The women think the intruder entered through the
windows, though they were not visibly tampered with.
They told their landlord about the incident, but never
called the police.

“Intruders are not always homeless,” said Sutton.
“I recall an incident two years ago ofa guy who would
intrude but never steal anything. He didn’t have to be
homeless, but he had a drug habit. He thought it was
more important to spend money on drugs than food
and shelter.”

Lexington Police Chief Bruce Beard warns area resi-
dents that the best way to avoid problems like this
and crime in general is to lock doors.

“Lock up to be safe,” he said. “Leaving a house or
car unlocked or open is just plain temptation.”

if police get a complaint they give the fraternity a warn-
ing and then a summons if they have to come back again
the same night. Beard said the best advice is to keep
people inside the party to reduce the noise.

Police also recommended that students register their
bike’s serial number with police to help in case it gets
stolen.

LILACS co-founder Thomas Field thought the dis-
cussion was a success for his embryonic group.

“We need to take a lot of steps and tonight was a big
step,” Field said. “Tonight got rid of a lot of stereotypes
about local law enforcement.” ‘ ’

Field got the idea for LILACS last spring when pro-
fessor of politics William Connelley said students could
compose a large voting block in the area if they were
registered to vote. LILACS sponsored a registration
drive last week and plans to bring more local ofﬁcials to
campus.

photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Editor

WHAT WOULD Miss MANNERS sAY?: Junior Justin Holton (left) crams one of the six hot dogs be

consumed in ﬁve minutes into his mouth.

john Comly: $50
buyer: jenny Thomas
Jacek Mucha: $30
buyer: Noelle Gamble
Rick Schnatz: $65
buyers: Avery Gholston and Stacy Kirnrnel
Lat Purcer: $145
buyer: Kate Blocher
Christian Batcheller: $30
buyer: Ashley Kensinger
Jon Stroebel: $90
buyer: Drew Powers
Spencer Liles: $50
buyer: Maggie Fagan
Dan Birdwhistell $65
buyer: Carly Nasca
Alex Wilkins: $60
buyer: Jane Ledlie
Thaxton Mauzy: $110
buyer: Drew Powers and Kate Blocher
Quincy Springs $110
buyer: Katherine Mead
Rob Naftel: $85
buyers: Karhlyn Pczcz, Lime Swarm, Alix Warren
Matt Howenstein: $65
buyer: Alison Becknell
Dan Grattan: $75
buyer: Huan Song

RESULTS or HABITAT FOR HUMANrrY’s
“SLAVE FOR A DAY” AUCTION:

Celtic

Connection

 

Find that s _ecial holiday gift! See
our selec ion of ﬁne im orted
goods from Ireland, Scot and, 85
other Celtic lands!

J-CWCIFY ' artwork 0 crystal ° china °sweaters
scarves ' throws 0 books 0 collectibles
Guinness items ' T-shirts ° music -food

Free Wrapping! Shipping Available.
10% 0/1" an y tartan lie or scarf with this ad

Don’t go home with the same old gifts! We have
something unique for every budget.

19 W. Nelson St.
(across the street from the movie theater)
Daily 10-5:30PM 8L Sundays

54-0-4-64—654-5
www.celticconnex.com

 

W&L String Quartet

Searching for some classy musical entertainment? Look
no further. W&L’s own Lovancy Ingram, Natalie Swope,
Allison MacQueen and Meghan Doyle want to play for
your function. The quartet may also feature clarinettist
Hayley Hall. Perfonning a mostly classical repertoire, the
group will also prepare other works upon request. Contact
Natalie at swopen@wlu.edu for additional information.

Stunning? Not to W&L students

The New York Times and Los Angeles Times both de-
scribed Arizona Sen. John McCain’s 18 percentage point
victory in the New Hampshire primary on Feb. 1 over Texas
Gov. George W. Bush as “stunning.” In Lexington, Va., the
students of Washington and Lee University responded
with a “ho-hum.”

That's because McCain's 18 point victory was exactly
what the school’s Mock Convention predicted on Jan 29.
McCain earned nine (53 percent) of New Hampshire’s 17
delegates, while Bush grabbed six (35 percent) and Steve
Forbes got two (12 percent).

W&L students were almost as impressive in Iowa a
couple of weeks ago. They picked Bush to beat Forbes by
21 percent in Iowa. Though Bush won by only 1 1 percent,
the students prediction was still two percentage points
better than the poll published by the Des Moines Register.

So what does McCain’s strong showing in New Hamp-
shire mean for the remainder of the Republican presiden-
tial race? Nothing if you continue to believe the W&L

. students. McCain earned just 83 delegates at the Mock

Convention as compared to 1,942 for Bush. W&L students
predict that McCain will carry only three states-Arizona,
New Hampshire and Vermont.

More information can be found on the Mock Conven-
tion web page.

Tuchler wins NSF grant

Matthew F. Tuchler, assistant professor of chemistry at
Washington and Lee University, has received an $86,000
grant from the National Science Foundation.

The award will be used to purchase a set of two re-
search grade lasers and supporting equipment to be used
in both introductory and upper level laboratory classes
and for research. David Sukow, assistant professor of
physics at W&L and Tom Williams, professor ofphys-
ics at W&L, are named as co-investigators of the grant
project.

“This equipment,” says Tuchler, “is part of the
ongoing commitment of the chemistry and physics
programs at Washington and Lee to introduce stu-
dents to state-of -the-art technologies early in their
college careers with the goals of enhancing their edu-
cational experience and preparing them to partici-
pate in active research programs at W&L.”

Tuchler joined the W&L chemistry department in 1998.
He earned his B.A. from Haverford College, his MS. at the
University of Chicago and his Ph.D. at the University of
Illinois at Urbana. Sukow joined the W&L faculty in the
fall of 1999. He received his B.A. from Gustavus Adolphus
College and his M.S. and Ph.D. from Duke University. Wil-
liams, head of the physics department, has been at W&L
since 1974.

Carlton Fletcher exhibit at W&L

Carlton Fletcher's show “Composing With Figures” will
be on exhibit at the Williams School from Feb. 18 through

March 31. He will give a talk about his work on Feb. 18 in
Room 221 of the Williams School at 6 p.m.

Fletcher, a founding member of the Washington Studio
School, is a painter, draftsman and printrnaker whose work
has been exhibited nationwide, with shows at the National
Academy of Art and the National Academy of Design in
New York City, the Phillips Collection and the Corcoran
Realist Gallery in San Francisco. He earned his B.F.A. from
Rhode Island School of Design and his M.F.A. from Ameri-
can University.

A review of his work by The Washington Post says his
ﬁgure studies in oil, paints and charcoals are “ﬁmily
grounded in classical traditions.and his series of moody
charcoal studies is not only ﬁne in itself, but reveals the
artist working toward a more ﬁnished version of the com-
position.”

Fletcher says he is passionate about ﬁgures: “As'stu-
dents of painting we admire Giotto, Masaccio, Caravaggio,
Cezanne, Degas and a host of other, but we hesitate to fol-
low their example. The question is: why study the masters of
ﬁgure composition unless we intend to give it a try?”

Strong publishes book on Carter

Robert A. Strong, the William Lyne Wilson Professor of
Politics at Washington and Lee University, is the author of
a new book, “Working in the World: Jimmy Carter and the
Making of American Foreign Policy” (Louisiana State Uni-
versity Press, 2000). Using nine detailed case studies based
on interviews with the participants and on recently released
documents, Strong examines how Carter addressed and
accomplished the work of foreign policy during his term.

“I ﬁnd much that was written about him when he was in
ofﬁce to be inaccurate,” said Strong, who is now working
on a book about fonner president George Bush. “He played

a much greater role in foreign affairs than he was given "

credit for. People said he was unable to control his divided
advisors. "Ihat’s not a fair portrait. Carter was fully in charge
and his advisors knew that.”

Zbigniew Brzezinski, Carter's national security advisor,
is quoted on the dust jacket as saying, “Strong gives Carter
much belated due for his personal leadership and spikes
some of the simplistic generalizations favored by the mass
media that portrayed Carter as indecisive and vacillating.”

Strong is also the author of “Decisions and Dilemmas:
Case Studies in Presidential Foreign Policy Making” and
“Statesmanship and Bureaucracy: Henry Kissinger and the
Making of American Foreign Policy.”

Strong joined the W&L faculty in 1989 and serves as
the politics department chair. Prior to coming to W&L he
served as a professor at Tulane University from 1982 to
1988. He served as an American Political Science Associa-
tion Congressional Fellow from 1988 to 1989 and worked in
the ofﬁces of Rep. Lee Hamilton and Sen. Richard Lugar.
At W&L, he teaches classes on international relations and
American politics.'He holdsdegrees from Kenyon College
(B'.A., ’1‘970),Nortlie‘r’ri Illiriois Un'iversity*(M.A., '1 977) and
the University of Virginia (Ph.D., 1980).

Chess tournament organizing

The Fighting Generals Chess Team, which has been
around for only two years, is sponsoring a chess touma-
ment. Since their beginning as a group of students and
faculty meeting in Dean Howison’s home, the group has
sponsored two single-elimination intramural tournaments.
In addition, they’ve organized an informal chess ladder
and are working on an intemet intercollegiate tournament.

The third tournament begins Feb. 23, and between 16
and 32 participants are anticipated. Competitors may sign
up at the Co-op, by sending e-mail to chess@wlu.edu, or
by calling x4728. There will be prizes for ﬁrst and second
place. Results of the ﬁrst round will be due the following
Tuesday.

For more information, go to the team's webpage at,
http://www.wlu.edu/~chess, which also has infonnation
about past and future tournaments.

Come and write for
Elite ﬂing-tum Iﬂlri

Join in the fun,
laughter, and behind-
the-scenes excitement
of W&L’s oldest and
most prestigious
newspaper

email us at phi@wlu.edu or call
X4060 and leave a message

"I

 

C

I

 

FEBRUARY7,2O00

OP

(J11: iRing-tum iﬂhi

INION

PAGE3

Lip Sync needs
another Austin

Lip Sync is a lot of things. Unfortunately, this year,
great was not one of them.

Not to say I expect insane amounts of nudity and drunk
pledges falling all over the place, but it ﬂat out did not
impress me.

I remember my freshman year when it was funny. No,
let me correct that, it was fall out of your chair hilarious.
Yes, there were an amazingly high number of disqualifica-
tions. Yes, a certain Phi Psi pledge had a small mishap.
Yes, the Sigma Nu act attempted to tear down lattices and
the SARAH sign. But, you have to look on the bright
side.

The act that
most stands out in
my mind is the Fiji
one. They did their
song and dance to
a medley of music from the Austin Powers soundtrack.
And don’t worry, they had their very own Austin. He
began in a bad suit. Then he started skipping/stumbling
around impersonating Austin Powers with the catlike
“meow”. Next, the blazer came off. This was followed by
the shirt and pants. That’s right, Fiji’s Austin was down
to his little red bikini briefs. And you mustn’t forget the
chest hair Austin possessed (which was all real). The Fiji
act was great, but of course they didn’t win because they
had the lethal combination of N.D.P. (naked, ‘drunk
pledges).

This year’s Lip Syncjust did not live up to the one two
years ago. Last year’s wasn’t as rambunctious either. And
no, it’s not because I was in it one year and not the oth-
ers. In fact, I wasn’t even in an act my freshman year. So,
I am coming to you as a bystander of the past three Lip
Syncs.

I have to admit, this year did have some very enter-
taining acts. The fraternities were surprisingly choreo-
graphed and clothed and the sororities were sadly un-
original. One of my favorite acts was the Talking Heads,
performed by Beta. The singer’s jacked up pants, the
keyboardist’s soulful tickling of the ivories, and the way
Beta dealt with the skipping CD made their act one of the
very best. Another act definitely worthy of a place was
Sigma Chi’s “Praise You.” The background dancers re-
minded me of the video with their subtle foot swaying,
frantic jumping, and stiff robot movements. Although
these were clearly two of the best acts, they didn’t so
much as place. I cannot even begin to explain this.

While Lip Sync is for a good cause and we always

 

Sir Isaac Lines
Stephanie Bianoo ’01

: raise a lot of money, if it continues to lackthe ﬂashyfun

factor the students at W&L would be better off drinking
at home watching the video from 1998. Then, they too
could revel in the unforgettable acts, such as Austin Pow-
ers, done in the true spirit of Lip Sync.

uote of the Week:

{K

I’ll be good, I’ll be good!

— Anonymous j unior guy

2’)

(J11: iiting-tum Elﬁlii

Executive Editor Polly Doig
Associate Editor Michael Crittenden
News Editor Max Smith

Opinions Editor
W&Li_'fe Editor

Sports Editor

Last Word Editor

Copy Editor

Photo Editor

Assistant Photo Editors

Stephanie Bianco
Eliana Marziani
Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin
Heather McDonald
Emily Barnes
Tiffany Friedel
Lisa Lin

David Hanson

Layout Editor Neal Willetts

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wIu.edu
http://wlu. edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: 530

SIGMA CHI PRAISES You. Five pledges perform Fatboy Slim’s “Praise You” during the Lip Sync.

 

Photo by Tiffany Friedel/Assistant Photo Editor

Are We thinking or just clapping?

I am not a Republican (pause for gasps of astonish-
ment). I just want to get that out in the open from the
beginning.

I walked into the Warner Center last Friday afternoon
as an Independent. I would like to be able to say that I was
Independent because I prefer to weigh each candidate on
their personal merits before making my
decisions, but who am I kidding — I
was apathetic, consciously not caring
at all about politics. I thought that maybe
the Mock Republican Convention
would pique my interest and that I
would actually ﬁgure out which party I wanted to join.

I learned many things on Friday.

I learned that the Chairman of the Republican National
Committee, upon being given the opportunity to address
a very large number of young people, to inﬂuence future
leaders of our nation, had no lasting impression to guide
us as we shape our lives. Instead, he chose to spend the
twenty-five minutes allotted to him to show us silly pic-
tures of Al Gore. I heard more about the evils of the Demo-
cratic Party than about any platform issue, about any of
the candidates for the nomination, or about any of the
virtues that the venerable J.C. Watts called us to portray in
his magniﬁcent speech.

I learned that Al Gore is a reliable windsock. Aﬁer hear-
ing Frank Keating repeat that phrase for twenty-five min-
utes, I was struck by the sincerity of one of his last state-

jersey Devil
&myEWtB

ments. Governor Keating called for a “restoration of good
will and honor in the White House.” He proposed that this
change could only be wrought by a Republican president,
by the dominance of the Republican Party.

Staff
Editorial

This week at Washington and Lee was quite a learning
experience for us here at The Phi, as they all are of course,
Mom and Dad. So we thought we’d send home a sort of
report card.

Actually we’ve just got space to kill, and anything
David Letterman can do, we can do better. We just can’t
get paid for it.

Top Ten Things We
Learned This Week:

10. “Photspreads” are not quite all they’re cracked up
to be. We weren’t sure whether our oh-so-clever-former-
competition was trying to be hip and call it a “Phatspread”,
or if we just need to haul ourselves into the 21st century.
But we do recommend spellcheck.

9. Taco Bell does horrible things to the wind through
the Phi office.

8. Fijis aren’t just meatheads, they’re “what are
meatheads with brains?”

7. J-Law may cover First Amendment issues, but the
tests are simply cruel and unusual.

6. Staff editorials are the best opportunity to take cheap
shots, and attribute them to an entire group of editors
who never saw it.

5. Dan Grattan does cost more than the price of a six-
pack. And for the price ofa keg, he might consider mar-
riage.

4. It’s harder than it sounds to consume four Saltines in
under a minute.

3. Beer Gardens need to be reinstated at Lip Sync,
which used to be fun.

2. Scott Guggenheimer is not funny. In fact, he’s like

Ah yes, the Republican party — the honorable party of McManemin on a bad_taste day

good-will and integrity that preaches to an impression-
able group of C-school majors and fu-
ture politicians that it is more impor-
tant we all understand that Al Gore is
not the inventor of the intemet, than to
set an example of good-will and honor.
Call me naive, call me an idealist, call me
Ishmael, but whatever you do, do not call me a Republican.

I sat down in my seat on Friday afternoon, excited by
the mass of people, the Styrofoam hats, the cameras, and,
by God, I cheered and clapped along with everyone else
whenever the speaker paused in his speech ever so slightly
— until I began to listen. When I started to listen to what
the speakers were saying instead of to the cheers of the
crowd around me I realized that I did not agree with a
single statement I was applauding.

Don’t think that I did not appreciate the Mock Conven-
tion. It awakened political interest in me and I know it is a
tremendous achievement of the W&L students involved.
When I was walking out of the Warner Center Friday
evening, a friend asked me if I was a Democrat. My answer
to her was “Now I am.” You can now officially add my name
to the list of people who need you to pray for their souls.

1. The Fiji pledge class needs to do a day-time streak
of the Colonnade.

The Ring-tum Phi

welcomes
Letters to the Editor

Please drop them oﬂ‘ outside the Phi
office or email them to us at phi@wlu.edu

Support for the performing arts lacking

Why is it that orchestra performances, and long, drawn
out appearances by “master artists” sell out Lenfest more
than the theatre departments productions? These shows
fairly consistently fill up the approximately 435 seat Keller
Theatre. Albeit, this is a large auditorium and the music
performances are mandatory for a large number of

season’s latest show, “Falstaff”, has been averaging a little
over 200 people for each performance.While this is not a
bad showing by any means, it is not nearly as strong as

the show deserves.
Falstaff has four performances. It performed Friday,
Saturday, and Sunday, and closes Monday with its fi-
nal show beginning at 8 p.m. The show has

people in music
classes, but the the- , ~
we department’  AnA<Io1’sPetspecI1ve

show after show, puts

 

Neal Willetts ’O5

everything you could want to see in a play:
greed, violence (sword fighting), whores,
wenches, and nudity. What more could you

on high—quality
shows.

I will give everyone some credit. This season’s first
two shows, “Arms & The Man” and “Biloxi Blues”, did
fairly well at the box offices. However, they were in the
Johnson Theatre, which is a much smaller arena. At most
the Johnson can seat about 120 people, and people often
must be turned away from shows.

The Keller, however, seats about 435 people, and this

want from an evening’s entertainment?

Greed, violence and nudity are what draws
the majority of us to the movie theatres, so why not to live
theatre? Live theatre is an art that has been around thou-
sands of years before the video camera, and its main at-
traction, of being live, is what makes it so special. The
comedy is more intense and the mistakes make it even
funnier. Best of all, it’s right in front of you, so close you
can reach out and touch it.

The show,s main draw, however, aside from the nudity,
violence and greed, is the talent of the actors. Senior
Brian Prisco, juniors Francis McWilliams, Howie
Sanbom, Blair Mitchell, Scott Cameron, sophomores
Rachel Welch and Micah Tolman, and freshman Emily
Pace light up the stage with their dramatic and comedic
abilities, each showcasing their talents in amazing per-
formances.

These actors have years of experience among them, and
plenty of shows under their belts. The talent, vivacity, and
love of theatre shine in their performances, making the ex-
perience even more enjoyable.

So, what more convincing could you possibly need?
Whores, greed, violence, nudity and some of the best tai-
ent in our school, all rolled into one.

Therefore, I expect to see a full house Monday night
and a bunch of people outside brawling over the last few
tickets, which, by the way, are free for students. Yet an-
other great incentive.

TALKbaCk...What did you think of Lip Sync?

 

“I’m too old for Lip Sync.”
—Ericka Balm ’0l

 

“I’d rather ski.”

— Tara Friedel ‘O2

 

“I liked seeing girls in sports bras.”
—- Ben Jolly ’02

 

 

“It sucked.”
—— Chris Pickens ’03

 

 

PAGE 4

W&

@112 ﬁling-tum ﬂirt

IF E

FEBRUARY 7, 2000

It takes a campus to make a difference

Students help autistic boy make strides

By Demaree Peck

SPECIAL TO THE PHI

“Touch bug!” Brent Rosengren, a
junior at W&L, spreads four pictures
on a table. My eight-year old son,
Caleb, touches a picture of beetle.
“Brouhahahahaha!” Brent explodes in
a loud monster voice, picking Caleb up
by his feet and swinging him over his
shoulders. Caleb laughs with delight.

An ice cold can of Coke sits entic-
ingly on the dining room table. “What
do you want? Say ‘Coke.’” Brent gives
Caleb the toy microphone.
“COHKUH!” Caleb proudly echoes.
“Awesome job, Caleb!” Brent makes
Caleb feel like a superstar.

“How many?” Amanda Lewis, a
sophomore, shows Caleb a picture of 10
balloons. Caleb scans the field of three
numbers on the table and picks up the
card with the number 10 written on it.
“Stupendous, buddy! Let’ s go for a ride!”
She gives Caleb a diuyin g tilt-a-whirl all
around the room in a chair on wheels.

“Which jelly-bean do you want?”
Senior Kelley Landry offers a choice of
two different colored jel1y—beans. Caleb
opens his PECS (Picture Exchange
Communication System) book, finds
three picture cards, arranges them in
order on a short ruler, and hands her a
sentence. Kelley reads it to him: “I
want orange jelly-bean! Excellent think-
ing!” She hands hirn his chosen treat.

“Build this.” Sophomore Jane Pontti
holds up a random photograph of a
structure made with 10
blocks. Caleb
uni sitatingly builds an
identical structure of
blocks. Jane leaps out
of her chair and dances
with Caleb, while sing-
ing, “For he’s a jolly
good fellow!”

“What do you want
‘go work for?” Stephanie
Miller, a junior, takes
Caleb to a board with
several pictures at-
tached to it. He selects
one and puts it on a
small clipboard, on
which are five pennies
serving as tokens to be
earned. “You want to
work for magazines?
Let’s go!” Stephanie
lays out several word
cards and hands Caleb a
series of pictures. “Put
with plant.” Caleb matches the pictures
to the corresponding words. “Bravo!”
Stephanie encourages him. “Only two
more pennies until you can have a maga-
zine!”

Jennifer Titus, a senior psychology
major, says nothing. She puts before
Caleb the parts of a marble maze and a
toy schedule made of sequenced pho-
tographs depicting how to build it.
Caleb independently puts the maze to-
gether, turning the pages of photo-
graphs as he goes, needing only a
slight prompt to reverse the direction
of a ramp. “I knew you could do it!”

Junior Brent Rosengren, Cale s favorite
teddy-bear, teaches him to say "up."

Jen gives Caleb a marble and he flaps
his hands in excitement as he watches
it roll down the
vortex of the
maze. She adds
to the fun by
bouncing Caleb
up and down in
acrobatic arcs on
a giant ball.

To these six
students -—- and
to the many
W&L students
who la ld the
groundwork be-
fore them——Ann-
Marie Harrill.
Leah Sawyer. and
others —— I want
to say thank youi
For cheering on
my son with so
much enthusiasm and dedication, you
deserve to be applauded. I can’t tickle
you or roll you on a mat, so l‘ll settle for
saying, as you have so many times con-
gratulated my son: “Hooray! Phenom-
enal! Thumbs up!"

Who, readers are asking, is Caleb?
Caleb is the son of professor of com-
puter science Ken Lambert and myself,
Demaree Peck. Caleb is a bright-eyed,
affectionate young boy who enjoys at-
tention and praise. He loves to be tick-
led and squeezed like a hot dog under
the blankets on his bed. He loves to
throw pebbles into Wood’s Creek. He

iaree Peck

 

loves to swing, swim. and sled down
hills. He enjoys playing puzzle games
on his computer. He likes music, espe-
cially Eric Clapton. He is afraid ofthe
dark and insists on sleeping with his
light on. Caleb has a selective eye for
special things that interest him. When
he was two, he walked for miles through
town, touching every single ﬂower
along the way. Once Caleb redecorated
the living room with atower of 10 rolls
of toilet paper stacked on top of the
stairway banister. At breakfast time,
he once asked for a bagel, not so he
could eat it, but so that he could run off

and string it. Caleb holds the world’s
record for eating an M&M in 10 bites.
Caleb is an exceptional child.

Those of us who love Caleb know

  

him as an individual; however, he car-
ries with him a label of “Autism” which
unfortunately, serves more to stigma-
tize than to help him. Since Caleb was
diagnosed in 1993, the incidence of
autism has increased from one in 10,000
to one in 500, and in some communi-
ties, one in 300. It has been declared an
epidemic. Although people suspect
that environmental toxins such as vac-
cines may be a contributing factor, cre-
ating blocked metabolic pathways and
sensory disturbances in the brain, no-
body knows the cause of this mysteri-
ous developmental disability. Caleb
was born normal. At about eight
months, he began to slip away from us
into his own impenetrable and ritualis-
tic world. Because of his condition,
Caleb is, as yet, unable to talk and has
profound difficulty understanding the
complex world of social relationships
and communication that the rest of us
take for granted. He perceives the world
differently. Without a verbal walking
stick with which to navigate his way,
he lacks the ability to organize his en-
vironment on his own. Caleb is like a
child locked away in the chambers of a
sunken boat. To help him, the therapists
must dive down to find where he is, and
bring him up to the surface. To me, Caleb
is a hero who is trying his best to survive
in a world made incomprehensible by his
own malfunctioning nervous system.
And the students who are trying to help
heal the broken circuit connecting him
to the world are equally heroic.

Although just 20 years ago, autistic
children were considered unteachable
and destined for institutionalization,
research now supports that early in-
tensive intervention is critical to help-
ing them reach their full potential within
the community. In our home—based pro-
gram, students teach Caleb according
to a promising, research-based method
known as ABA, or Applied Behavior
Analysis. ABA breaks tasks down into
simple components and teaches dis-
crimination through a series of hierar-
chical, discrete trials. The key to its
success is positive reinforcement.
Above all, learning has to be fun.

The therapy needs to be intensive

' .

_ _ Photo courtes
"Tici<Ll:D” TO BE RIGHT: Senior Kelley Landry rewards

Caleb Lambert with squeezes and cotton candy for correctly
identifying “ears” in a “Body Parts” drill.

  
  
 
 

8:00 p.m.

: 8:00 p.m.

 

. »._ Macon College. Warner Center.
ii Theatre ‘Series. “Falstaff.” Adapted and
' , j  directed by JD. Martinez. Keller The-

: «C atrlelenfest Center. For reservations call
« . ._ s ., . .thelLenfestCenterBox Office, 463-8000.
. ,    Play. “Moral,” a three-act com-
' ' 7   '7’ ‘ C. . edy’ by Bavarian playwright Ludwig

‘ C . ’rThoma. Johnson Theater, Lenfest.

7 p.m.

 

8:30 p.m.

 aay 
basketball (w). W&L vs. Randolph-

, g _ 6:00 p.m.
\ , Macon College. Warner Center.

   
 

= Lenfest Center. I

. ..;"lIednesasy. Feb. 9

_ V p , 7 :00 p.m.
,  Lecture. “Telling the Truth in Journal-

Friday, Feb..11

 Play. “Moral.”}ohnson Theater, ,

Monday, Feb. 14

ism,” Steve Rosenfeld, former  C:  1

rial page editor and columnist of the

Washington Post. Northen Atidito- ‘

iiurn.

Lecture. “The Transﬁguration of the is

Mount: New Readings of Biblical

Texts,” Prof. Phyllis Trible, Associ- ’

ate Dean and Professor of Biblical
Studies, Wake Forest University. I s

Northen Auditorium. Reception and I

book signing to folloyvﬁ .

German PIay._‘FMoral.’:§Joih::n‘ so

ater, Lenfest Center. 9

Thursday, Feb. 10  . . 4 . 

Basketball~(W). W&L vs. Hollins
University. Warner Center.

Lecture. “Nutrition supplements and
their application to sports perfor-
mance,” Dr. Mike Powers, assistant
professor, University of Florida.
Moot Court Room, Sydney Lewis
Hall. '

(Undergraduate). washingtoirnoii-j

day begins after classes.) Classes re- ‘
sumeMonday, Feb.21i. \/3:».   .

Basketball (M). W&L vs.

Bridgewater College. WarnerICen_ter.,

in order to be effective. We are striving
to provide Caleb with 40 hours a week
of one-to-one therapy. This involves a
substantial time commitment from each
student, who typically
works with Caleb for six
hours each week, over
the course of two three-
hour shifts. Most stu-
dents are paid, al-
though some have
done internships
through the psychol-
ogy department for
course credit. I wish to
thank professors Nancy
Margand and David
Elmes for supervising
these internships.

I hope that the stu-
dents have found their
work with Caleb as re-
warding as I have. Their
efforts have paid off.
Caleb is making good
progress. In addition to the satisfaction
of seeing Caleb leam, student therapists
receive professional training during
monthly scheduled workshops provided
by C.A.R. D., the Center for Autism and
Related Disorders. Later this month, the
students and I will receive further train-
ing at a model educational site, the Vir-
ginia Institute of Autism, in
Charlottesville.

This is an exciting time to be involved
in Caleb’s program. We have just re-
ceived ﬁlnding from the local school
district, which means that we can af-
ford to make more hours and training
available. In addition, some students
will have the unique opportunity to ac-
company Caleb as a “shadow” into the
regular school setting, to facilitate his
integration with his typically develop-
ing peers. More than ever before, work-
ing with Caleb can be a valuable learn-
ing opportunity, affording students
hands-on experience with a real boy
outside of a textbook -— a boy who
desperately needs their help.

Ken and I are the keepers of the
hope. We are grateful to those special
W& L students who have joined us in
the solitary lighthouse to shine the
beacon of compassion, tolerance, and
love into Caleb’s life. In our case, it takes
a campus to raise a child.

Editor's note: If you would like to
make a diﬂerence in Caleb ’s life, and
wish to have more information about
his program, Demaree Peck can be

reached at dgeck@,5ockbridge. net, or
at 464-1420.

   

ee Peck

 

something about commitments.
Shuttling between football prac-
tices, rehearsals for Southern Com-
fort, GCF meetings, SAMs (Stu-
dent Athlete Mentors) and acting
as president of Phi Gamma Delta,
Lipsey spends more than enough
of his time being busy with other
organizations.

Lipsey, a business major, was
originally born in Louisiana.
Lipsey now lives outside of Or-
lando, Florida, with his parents and
two younger brothers, one of
whom will be coming to Washing-
ton and Lee University next year
as a freshman.

Q: What made you choose
Washington and Lee ?

“When it came down to it,
W&L was the best school that I
got into,” Lipsey said. “I was im-
pressed by the business school
and I knew that size-wise, I could
definitely play football here.”

And play football he has. One
of the four co-captains for next
year’s team, Lipsey was the
league’s leading tackler in the
ODAC last year.

Q: Why do you play football?

“Football is a great way to get
away from academics. Plus, it is a
sport I have always loved and it
has helped me grow as a person.
The football team is also like a fam-
ily; some of the first as well as
some of my best friends are from
the football team.”

Football has not always been
Lipsey’s sport however, he was a
champion weightlifter in high
school in addition to his gridiron
conquests.

Off the field Lipsey is also suc-
cessful. As president of Fiji he has
led his fraternity to first place fin-

Signature Student
yayson 51/bsey ’0]

Junior Jayson Lipsey knows~

ishes in grades, Lip Sync, and a
current lead in the intramural
standings. Lipsey is quick to
point out that the rise in house
success has been a group effort.

“The guys in the house have

    

Pho

 

urtesy of the Calyx

really worked hard to get where
we are,” Lipsey said. “It is im-
portant to us to work hard and
encourage a positive image on
campus.”

Q: How has W&L helped you
grow?

“I think that W&L has really
loosened me up, which I guess is
one way ofmaturing. I have also
been amazed at the increase in
campus ministry involvement.”

Q: Where do you see yourself
in 10 years?

“In 10 years I see myselfmar—
ried, with a couple ofkids,'hope-
fully the owner of my own busi-
ness, as well as the member ofa
ministry.”

Q: What do you do for fun,
apart from your extracurricular
activities?

“I enjoy a good cigar, listen-
ing to Harry Connick Jr. and
spending time with my beautiful
girlfriend.”

WRITE FOR THE PHI!

(we command you.)

Valentine’s Day J umbalaya

By Eliarma Marziani
F EA TURES EDITOR

Tired of reading sickly-sweet ar-
ticles and love stories every year at
Valentine’s Day? Or are you one of the
people who loves sappy articles,
watches “An Affair to Remember” and
“Sleepless in Seattle” religiously

a Christian one. Instead of Lupercus,
the Church designated Valentine the
patron saint of lovers. Hence, the holi-
day was Christianized. Though they
ended the lottery, men still used
Valentine’s Day, Feb. 14th, as a day to
attempt to woo the women they loved,
oﬁen sending their beloved messages

Several men came out of the car, a
couple uniformed and a couple non-
uniformed. These men were actually
members of Capone’s gang, pretend-
ing to be police. They burst into the
warehouse as if doing a bootlegging
raid and told the men to line up against
walls. As soon as the men complied,

the “police” broke out in ma-

every Valentine’s Day, and has
pink heart vinyl clings on your
dorm window (so am 1!)?
Regardless, this year’s
Valentine’s Day story has some-
thing for everyone. Read on.

Histog:

Valentine’s Day honors the
Catholic Saint Valentine, a mar-
tyr who was beheaded in 270
A.D. Supposedly Emperor
Claudius refused to let his sol-
diers get married in those days,
because he felt it split their at-
tention and loyalties. Valentine,

 

chine-gun fire. The “police”
emerged alive, having killed all
the men inside. Since Moran,
who was supposed to have
been the target of the assassi-
nation, was late, Capone’s men
missed him. Though it was un-
provable, since Capone was in
Florida at the time of the attack,
Moran knew that Capone had
done it. The attack, though bril-
liant and untraceable, signaled
the beginning of the end for
Capone. He had gone too far.
In this massacre, Capone drew
so much attention to himself that
he made the government deter-

a Catholic priest, disobeyed
Claudius’ edict by secretly marrying

young men and their lovers. Claudius

later found out. At first he tried to con-

vert Valentine to paganism, but when

he would not comply, he ordered him

beheaded. While in prison, Valentine

healed his jailer’s blind daughter, and

directly before his death sent her a mes-

sage signed “Your Valentine.”

One story says that in the 5th cen-
tury, the Romans had been celebrat-
ing a holiday in mid-February, honor-
ing the pagan god Lupercus, for al-
most 800 years. In this holiday, young
men had a “rite of passage” ceremony
in which they would draw the name of
a teenage girl in a lottery, and the girl
whose name they drew would become
their sexual pal't:il;;'  ‘LE1; 3 The
Catholic Church decided to look for a
way to convert the pagan holiday into

signed with Valentine’s name.
Violence:

Not all people celebrate Valentine’s
Day with teddy bears and chocolates.
On Valentine’s Day of 1929, the gang
of Al Capone bloodied the streets of
Chicago with the bodies of members
of Bugs Moran’s gang, in a notorious
massacre that ultimately led to
Capone’s downfall. The morning of
the 14th, seven of Moran’s men stood
waiting for a truck cheap bootlegged
whiskey (tipped off by a man later
found to be connected to Capone’s
gang) in a warehouse.

Moran was supposed to meet them
there, but he was late. While the men
were waiting for lvlor-all and tin. ti Ululk,
a police car came up to the warehouse.
Moran, just arriving, saw it and hid.

mined to nail him. In the mean-
time, Capone gave another meaning
to color red that is predominant on
Valentine’s Day.

Cute (and alternatelv
frightening)links:
Propose online:

http://www.invision.net/cupid/

valentines forever weddinghtml
Apply to get married on the Empire
State Building on Valentine’s Day:
http://www.esbnyc.com/html/
happy valentine s dav.html
Love Calculator: calculate probability
of a successful relationship with your
crush (or try other fun matches -— Bill
Clinton and I got an 84 percent!) :
http://www.lovecalcillatoncorg
LICL d. tutu Lv your ‘vu|\.ulI.ilA\« pust-
marked in Loveland:
http://www.loveland.org/valentine/

1’.

 

 

K

k

FEBRUARY 7, 2000

SP0

 

‘ UP THE MXDDLE: Senior Jessica Morton blasts through the defense during the Generals’ upset of
\ Bridegewater College on Thursday. Morton tallied thirteen points on the day.

i the Warner 

By Mike Weil

STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee Gener-
als’ men’s basketball team contin-
ued their home success and their

road woes this week, falling to-

V Shenandoah 73-67 before topping
Eastern Mennonite 56-51 Saturday
at the Warner Center.

The Generals held an early seven
point lead on the Hornets of
Shenandoah, but would suffer a 9-0
run for a 37-33 halftime deﬁcit. .

W&L would reclaim the advan-
tage, as the Hornets connected on
,g 12-14 free throws to secure the vic-

tory.

The Generals were led by fresh-
man Scott Hetterman, who tallied
career-highs in points and rebounds

V with 16 and seven, respectively.
Junior Will Ballard added 13 for

the Generals, and classmate Chad

Braley tallied 11, including three

from behind the arc.

Shenandoah shot 92 percent from
the line, hitting 23 oftheir 25 foul
shots. The loss leaves the Generals
still searching for their ﬁrst win away
it from Lexington.

“Wejust come out more pumped
up at home than we do on the road,”
said Ballard.

W&L avenged a previous over-
time loss on the road with
Saturday’s victory versus. Eastern
Mennonite.

With_ the win, the Generals moved
k to 7-2 at home.

The Generals again held an early
advantage before Eastern Menno-
nite used a 12-0 run to take a 25-17
lead with 19 minutes to play.

1‘ The Royals would build their lead
up to 1 1 before the Generals started
their comeback.

W&L surged on a 23-6 run to give

lg them a 43-37 lead that they would
not relinquish.

EMU would cut the lead to one,
but the Generals connected on eight
of 10 free throws down the stretch

ll to seal the victory.

Generals lacrosse players receive honors

Street & Smith's College Lacrosse
USA Pre-season All-America teams
have been announced and Washing-
ton and Lee had seven players hon-

’‘ ored. Only defending national cham-
pion Salisbury State had more All-
America selections (8).

A trio ofjuniors, attackman Matt V

y‘, Dugan, midﬁelder Pope Hackney, and
defenseman Pete lwancio were all
named to the First Team All-America
list. All three earned Pre-season First
Team All-America honors by Faceoff

V 2000 Men’s Lacrosse Yearbook.

Dugan was the ODAC Player of
the Year and a Second Team All-
American last season after tallying
57 goals and 27 assists for 84 points.
Hackney was a First Team All-ODAC
and Third Team All-America selec-

 

Braley led the Generals with 17
points, nailing four of seven from
three point land. Senior Scott Hudson
tallied nine points and three blocks,
and senior Brian Ricketts added eight
boards for the Generals.

Despite shooting 32 percent from
the floor and being out—rebounded
46-32, the Generals used stellar de-
fense and good free throw shooting
(1 8-22) to earn the win.

tion in 1999 after scoring 27 goals and
dishing 10 assists, while lwancio
earned the same honors after help-
ing the Generals post the nation's top
scoring defense (5.20 gpg).

Senior attackman Colin
Dougherty earned Second Team
Preseason All-America honors by
CLUSA after garnering the same
honor by Faceoff 2000. Dougherty
was named Second Team All-ODAC
last season after totaling 26 goals
and 26 assists for 52 points. He
earned Honorable Mention All-
America honors following the 1998
season, but was riddled with inju-
ries in 1999.

Senior defenseman Charlie Antrim,
senior attackman Chris Brown, and
junior goalie Wes Hays were all

Men’s basketba1l’s success in
enter continues

    

Photo by Tiffany Friedel/Assistant Photo Editor
How MUCH ARE POINTS THESE DAYs?: Senior Brian Ricketts pre-
pares to shoot a free throw during Saturday’s win over EMU.

“The win was real big,” contin-
ued Ballard. “We need to string a
few together before the conference
tournament starts.”

“We’d like to get on a roll, and
we have to use our home games to
do it.”

W&L returns to action Monday
night at the Warner Center when
they host Randolph-Macon. Tip—off
is set for 7 p.m.

named Honorable Mention Pre-sea-
son All-America.

Like Dougherty, Antrim also
battled through an injury—plagued
1999 season to earn First Team All-
ODAC and Honorable Mention All-
America honors. He was named to
Faceoffs Second Team Pre-season
All-America squad.

Hays finished the 1999 season
third in Division III in goals-against
average (5.91) and posted a .600 save
percentage.

Washington and Lee returns 24
letterwinners, nine starters, and its top
nine scorers to the field this season af-
ter going 13-2 last year. The Generals
won the ODAC with a perfect 6-0 record
and advanced to the quarterﬁnals of
the NCAA Toumament.

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor’

@112 Tiling-tum iﬂlti

RTS

PAGE 5

Women’s basketball hands
ODAC front-runner upset

By Steele Cooper

SPOR TS EDITOR

Though the Washington and Lee women’s basketball
teams season may be considered by some a disappoint-
ment, it is not without its bright spots.

The Generals proved that they are not to be discounted in
the ODAC when they beat the top-ranked team in the confer-
ence, Bridgewater College on Thursday, 60-57. The week
was not without its cursory letdown, however, as the Gener-
als fell to Emory and Henry, 53-42, on Saturday.

On Saturday at E&H, turnovers and poor shooting kept
the Generals from going two for two on the week. W&L was
only able to connect on 29 percent of their shots from the
floor and 14 of the Wasps’ points came from the Generals’ 18
turnovers.

“We couldn’t shoot on Saturday. You can't win basket-
ball games when you only score 42 points,” said senior Jes-
sica Morton.

Morton also said that the Generals suffered a lack of men-
tal preparation going into the game.

“It was atough road trip for us. Once we got there, we had
to wait through [an Emory and Henry] men’s game and so we
didn’t get the warrn-up and preparation we’re used to,” she
said.

Sophomore forward Jessica Mentz led the Generals with
15 points and 13 rebounds. Morton posted seven points and
two assists.

The Generals are now 1 1-8 overall and 8-7 in the ODAC.

. The week started off on an season-high note for W&L
when they handed a loss to the then 10-2 top-ranked
Bridgewater. W&L headed into the locker room at halftime
with a 20-23 lead but were not able to cruise all the way

through the second half.

W&L trailed by four with little more than seven minutes
remaining in the contest. The teams traded small leads for
most of the second half until sophomore Sarah Schmidt nailed
a running lay-up with only 1 :51 left to give the Generals the
last lead they would need to close out the win.

Senior guard Ansley Miller added another 17 points to
the W&L scoring record on Thursday on seven-of-1 I shoot-
ing. Miller connected on 2-of-3 from three-point range.

Sophomore center Megan Babst scored 14 points and
three blocks. Morton posted a 13 point effort.

A combination of a winning defensive gamble, improved
ball management, and dead-on shooting from the ﬂoor made
the upset happen. W&L shifted to a trapping defense to
concentrate on BC’s two strongest players, a guard and a
post player.

“The trapping defense worked well because we were able
to pack in against their post player and extend to cover the
guard,” said Morton.

That defense held the Eagles to a mere 28.8 percent shoot-
mg.

“We kept our turnovers down and didn’t freak out in
tough situations,” she said. “We were able to keep our com-
posure.”

The Generals shot almost 49 percent from the ﬁeld and
52.2 percent during the second half. The Eagles were out-
rebounded 35-3 1 by the Generals.

The upset has the Generals thinking ahead to the ODAC
tournament.

“There is no dominant team in the conference so it’s still
wide open,” said Morton.

The next step comes on Tuesday when W&L hosts
Randolph-Macon on Tuesday at 7:00 p.m.

Junior_Josh Chamberlain‘ andfreshinafn Ericson

‘ Davis each wrestled their way to,third-plac‘e‘finishes

at the Newport _New_s.Ap'prentice‘ Invitational on Sat-
urday. ' if 5 4 ii A’  ‘

Chamberlain and Davis each ,.posted?'p_ins, in their

Both wrestlers thenlwere able to regroup ‘ b ttlingltlreir
ways . rough ‘the consolation jbrackets o  third-

iplaééflhishééii . r . A .    .
  0ﬂ1¢r.G¢ne!a1s. claiming yictqncsmcqhtested marches

: ‘wine seniorchad,‘c;asto,andjuni6i‘cnégVe1entine. V
 ﬁnished seventh  pthevteamscoringi with ‘a
total of 24 ‘points: The Generals now have an overall
record ,of 4-3 and 62-2 . in Centennia1- Conference
n'1éfch‘‘'‘‘"'’s_ ’     . . l . '  l
J 'S¢ﬁi<.'>f:Ch53    aIi<11.1a°¢"S Only
pii1iIi_1¢*?dﬁ18liié   ‘£24921 Viétory

°VefS9“l11¢!i1eYii‘3$i1‘l?C°“ég€'bn W°¢ln¢S?1?Y€:V¢ning-

S Washington} aiid‘1.fee's :.§iioijtien's§.sil:viiiitning team
swept a double idlial swimmeet on?-Thursday’evening
in Radford, Va, triui1‘1phing.'o_v_er_tl1e’host Highlanders
by a score of:'_78-17,-while also defeating I-lollins Uni-

versity by  count of 82-.13.  ,  w

era _ed_:victories'iiril0 of _the 11
events comprising the 'eomp:etition,Thep:Clenera1s (10-

The‘Washington and Lee indooihaek teams trav-
eled across townoyer the weekend to compete in the
VMI Winter Indoor Relays. . - j - ‘ ’_ y - 3.3:. .,

The Generals were led by junior Marc Watson and
freshman Burke Duncan, each ofwhom geiiiered fourth-
place ﬁnishes irljhe competition. No ‘team scoring was
kept in the meet? ’ f _ i J ;

Watsonclaimed fourth place in the ﬁnals of the men's
55-meter dash in a time of 6?.5,7‘seconds.

 

‘opening matchesbefore losing iiijtlie ‘_sec,ond,r”o_und., _

 

Casto, wrestling in the 125-pound classiﬁcation, re- ‘
corded afall atthe 4:56  ofhis  »
Marranto. The win pushed lCast,o's record to’15-:4,'on ,
the season and 7-0 «in dual meets. Tsophomdre fl'3_3.-

pounder Ben‘Segal followed up“‘Casto's'win Afw:ith"a’:7-4 .
victory over Corey Hickinan,  the_Generals aquick
9-Olead. , . .5 ~_:   .. . _. i : _  

» Freshman John Polena then1won_,liis;141'-‘ iind  W
by forfeit, increasing the ;_ eadltoiil 0_.Aﬁ_er;SV{C '

(2?4)Fa1li°df0 19l111_V‘lith,il1'l,5,f9s;l‘l‘:‘.l9T. -.Gfé8’y‘ll°l1ll¥‘.9 » :.
recordedla bigi‘wi_n_at,    l A  A
by a score of 9-5, pushing the‘W6fi‘l; leadhto-1 ” Junior
John Sensing then clinched die~victory;fo}  Gener-

.als with a forfeit win at.285 pounds,‘ .: 1  .» 

 

    

     

The Generals willretum topactioin on ‘when
they will travel to Baltimore, Md., for the , -
, Quadrangular. The quad-match set tobegingat 12:00

p_m_ . g, * g_ .   —. .

 

' 5, 4-0 ODAC) took theﬁrst two. places’ in five of the
heats. Freshman Kathleen Gibson recorded ‘tlir'ee"1ife- V‘
time bestsinthe victories._   L f‘ 1 C ' :

W&L's victoryover Hollins clinched_the  regu- ‘
lar-season ODAC champion,ship.;__ ' ‘ 7. V   L ‘-

W&L willretum to action" at_”th'e' ODAC/Atlantic
States Championships on Feb, '18-20. 0

Duncan, W&L's top ﬁnisher on the women's side,
crossedtl1eliI1eirrthe3,000-rneternmwithatirneof 1 1:08.70.

The Generals had two other top-10 ﬁnishers in the
meet. Freshman Kelly Schlicter ﬁnished in seventh place
in the women's 800-meternm (2:3 170), while junior Chris
Wahl took home ninth place in the men's shot put (39'
06.5"),

W&L's teams will retum to action at Lynchburg Col-
lege on Feb. 8. ‘

Head Coah Jim Stagnita is opti-
mistic about the upcoming season.

“This is the first team I've had that
has returned so many All-Americans

following an NCAA Tournament E N G L A N D ,9 I T A L Y
berth,” said Stagnitta.

“These guys have been to two
NCAA Tournaments inarow. Look- H O N G K O N G * S PA IN
ing at things from a factual stand-
point, this is the strongest group of  B  *  N 

returnees I've ever had. We have two
guys that will contend for the (W& L)
career scoring record and a solid
group of defensemen and goalies.
I've never had such a stable group of
goalies returning.”

The Generals begin their season
when they host Elmira on Wednes-
day, Feb. 23.

Planning to stutlv Abroad?
gyracuse Ilasjmur ticket!

SYRACUSE; -
STUDYABROAD 2, A

119 Euclid Ave/Box D Syracuse, NY 13244

   

?”l!i1drl‘

— Courtesy Sports Information

800 235 3472 suabx-oad@syt.edu
http://sumweb.syr.edu/dipa

 

 

PAGE 6

http://members.
xoom.oom_XOOM
lprimalllmahirl
index.html

LAST WORD

FEBRUARY 7, 2000

Casualties continue to mount in the war on drugs

By Kevin McManemin

ROCK ON LONDON, ROCK ON CHICAGO

The numbers are in for I 999 from
the Rockbridge Regional Drug Task
Force. The task force 's eﬂorts last year
resulted in a total of I 2 7 drug charges
being filed including 76 felonies. The
task force seized over 98-thousand
dollars worth of narcotics last year
including nearly 7000 grams 0 mari-

juana and nearly 40 grams of powder
and crack cocaine. (WREL)

Wow. 127 drug arrests is ahell ofa
lot for such a small town. And hey, in
a city of 7000 people, the 7000 grams
of pot works out nicely! That’s one
hell of a party you’ve spoiled, thank
you very much Rockbridge Regional
Drug Task Force.

Is itjust me, or is the war on drugs
working out about as well for this
country as Vietnam? Why are we
spending billions of tax dollars on a
task as impossible as the Forbes cam-
paign? Why are we ﬁlling our prisons
with harmless dopers when the real de-
generates of our society —— murder-
ers, rapists, democrats — are getting
off with slaps on the wrist? And why,

It takes
to raise

by Kevin McManemin

ROCK N ‘ROLL MCDONALDS

Saying that Sesame Street “no
longer reflected the true diversity of
America,” yesterday the third district
Federal Court ordered sweeping new
cast changes to the long-running
show. “We cannot allow our children
to be corrupted by a show which does
not provide adequate role models for
all youth,” the Honorable Sarah
Fleishman said.

Most of the current cast of humans
and monsters will be laid off — and
many of them had strong words about
the ruling. Big Bird called the court’s
decision a “crock of Snuffelupagus, if
you catch my driﬁ.” Grover said the
trial was “the saddest thing to happen
on Sesame Street since Mr. Hooper
died.” But the muppet most affected
is doubtlessly Oscar the Grouch, who
was executed by ﬁring squad this
morning for the capital crime of insen-
sitivity. “We have to send a message
to our youth that a negative attitude
will get you nowhere,” the Honorable
William H. Goldstein said.

We at the Last Word have obtained
a spec-script of the new court-ordered
Sesame Street. It is presented here for
your ediﬁcation and enjoyment:

seam strut
Ellsuo 951
Ilrlm: AM. 2000

Sunny day keeping the
clouds away

On my way to where the air
is sweet

Can you tell me how to get,

how to get to Sesame
Street?
ELMO: Elmo is so happy!

So many.new friends on
Sesame Street! Hello, new
muppet Brother Khalid-
Muhammed!

BKM: Waddup, Brother Elmo.

ELMO: Elmo want to sing
the ABC song!

BKM: Alright. A is for
Anarchy. B is for
Brotherhood. C is for
Oppression. There's your
f***ing ABC's.

ELMO: Elmo not like that
song!

BKM: What do you want to
learn that disgusting
Anglo—Saxoid language for,

« anyway? When Allah's Holy

Revolution wipes the white
Satan and his filthy
languages off the earth,

in a culture that defends a woman’s
choice to abort her fetus as “her right
to control her body,” are supposedly
free citizens not allowed to put a little
heroin in the ol’

using drugs, but we now know that
studies have proven DARE about as
effective a drug deterrent as a Grate-
ful Dead concert. And this should

come as a sur-

b100dStf8am prise to no one.
whenever they our schools
jolly well wantto? can’t even teach

The answer, kids the multipli-
of course, is that cation tables _

drugs are bad for
people, and the
g o v e r n m e n t
should protect
people from bad
things. By that

 

did we honestly
expect them to.
teach the youth
of America how
to make respon-
sible moral deci-

logic, though, the sions?
government So ifthe law
should pass a law or education
outlawing the Keith Richards’s face says, won’t deter kids
USA Network. “c’mon kids, I dare you to do from using drugs,
As long as drugs! I dare you!” what will? Easy:
there is a supply 60’s rock stars.
of drugs and a Back in the

demand for them, all the laws in the
world aren’t going to keep capitalism
from running its course. So laws and
Regional Drug Task Forces aren’t the
answer to drug abuse —- education is.

Just kidding. It sounds nice to say
that educating kids will stop them from

a village
a muppet

there will be rejoicing in
the streets, Brother Elmo!

ELMO: Elmo like rejoicing!
Well, Elmo has to go to
Sesame Street's newest
shop now ~ Lezbo’s eco-
feminist bookstore!

(ELMO walks into the
store. BERT is at
the counter)

BERT: Excuse me, do you
have any books about paper

clips?

LEZBO: Take your phallus
elsewhere!

BERT: What?

LEZBO: You heard me, pig!
BERT: And to think Ernie
and I marched in the
parade for people like you!

(BERT storms out)

ELMO: Hi, Lezbo! Nice new
eyebrow and nose rings!

LEZBO:
Thanks!

Hello, Elmo.

ELMO: Elmo love reading!

LEZBO: Good! Here's a book

for you: A History of Rape:
Dissecting the White

Misogynist Culture .

ELMO: Do you have any books
on numbers?

LEZBO: Numbers? How about
this number: 140 million.
That's the number of
innocent trees and plants
murdered every day by the
plutocratic phalluses in
charge.

ELMO: How about numbers
like five or seven?

LEZBO: You and your
bourgeois numbers!

(JORGE the
differently—abled-
transgendered-
hermaphroditic—
Tejano-Latino-
muppet—American
wheels his
wheelchair into
LEZBO's bookstore)

JORGE: Hi Lezbo! Hi Elmo!

ELMO: I-li, Jorge the

good ol’ days, Ginger Baker used to
shoot heroin behind his eyeballs to
keep him going during his 20-minute
long drum solos with rock’s ﬁrst su-

 

differently—abled-
t r axis g erid e1:e d —
hermaphroditic-Tejano—
Latino-muppet-American!
How's it going?

JORGE: OK!
LEZBO: Just OK?

the
can

JORGE: Sometimes OK is
very best thing you
be! (cue music)

Well sometimes you
happy

And sometimes you are
But if you are OK
Then you can’t be doing
baaaaaaad...

are

sad

I've got parts from both
the sexes

I'm a bilingual from Texas
I drive a wheelchair not
a Lexus

That's OK!

ELMO: You're OK!

JORGE: I have sex with
guys and gals

Doesn' t mean I'm bacchanal
Means I've got twice as
many pals

That's OK

LEZBO: You're OK!

JORGE: Ohhhhh. . .

My wheelchair didn't keep
me from following my dream
Of playing on my school's
varsity basketball team.
Though I can't dribble or
shoot the ball I know that
that's OK.

I'll bet the coach is glad
that the court ordered me
to play.

That's OK!

ELMO: You're OK!
LEZBO: We're OK!

JORGE: I'm OK!

ALL: We're Okaaaaaaaay!

ELMO: That's a great song!
Goodbye everyone! See you
next week!

LEZBO: ELMO! That was
insensitive to our blind
viewers!

ELMO: Elmo Sorry! See or
hear you next week! Please
don’t fire Elmo!

Today 's show was brought to you by
the letters h and o and by the political
doctrine "Marxism. "

pergroup, Cream. Today, Ginger Baker
looks like he’s been run over by a
dumptruck, which backed over his face
four times and dumped a whole load
ofugly on him.

Keith Richards is actually 57 years
old, which comes as a surprise to any-
one who has seen a recent pic of the
bloke and knows that he looks like he
could be Bob Dole’s grandfather. What
a drag it is getting old, eh, Keith? And
Ringo Starr. . . well. . . he’s stilljust
Ringo Starr. That’s divine punishment
enough.

Aging sixties rock stars are the real
tragic faces of drug abuse. And the
ones l’ve mentioned are the ones who
survived! We don’t even need to bring

up Jim, J imi, Janis, and the acid casu-
alties like Syd Barrett and Peter Green,
once-brilliant men who fried their
brains into Ozzy-Osboume-like unin-
telligibility.

So please, we don’t need to con-
centrate our efforts on campy PSA’s
to tell kids “how to say no.” Any kid
whose life is worth protecting knows
how to say no —— we need to give him
a reason to. If you want to scare kids
sober, have a PSA in which Bob Dylan,
Lou Reed and Mick Jagger face the
camera, take off their sunglasses and
loudly proclaim, “Kids, this is the face
of drug abuse.” Street dealers won’t
be able to give the stuff away after
that.

 

Bob Dylan shows off his medal
for years of dedicated service
to pot growers everywhere.

W&L alums get funky on
idletime’s debut album

By Josh Harvey

PHI Music CRl'lI(.‘

There must be something about
idletime. I’m talking about three
‘ W&L alums and some New Orleans
musicians who are giggin’ four nights
a week and about to go full time.
Leggett and Wilkinson have deﬁ-
nitely come a long way since their
stint with Aquanautilus their senior
year in 1997, both in their playing and
their song writing.

However, the band’s sound is
grounded in a long tradition of self-
indulgent jam bands like New Or-
leans’ Greyboy Allstars and Michael
Ray and The Kosmic Krewe, with
hints of local favorites Agents of
Good Roots, and even bigger acts
like Widespread Panic, Phish and
Medeski, Martin and Wood. Unfor-
tunately, their ﬁrst album, “time stops
. . .” is consequently sterile, if tech-
nically sound. ‘

Jam bands are almost as serious a

 

problem to music as the Spice Girls.
The genre is so appealing to newer
musicians due to the success of the
aforementioned bands, but let’s ad-
mit it (and I can say with a fair
amount of certainty): Agents
sucked in the inceptionary years. It
takes serious practice, skill, band
communication and stage presence,
and only seasoned veterans can pull
it off (and how many of the hun-
dreds of Phish jams a year are even
uninspired and flat?) Young bands
who are emulating this tradition are
prone to rambling solos, looseness
of arrangement and lack of cohesion
within songs. It's one thing to hear
Medeski or Joshua Redman play a
ﬁve minute solo, but it takes serious
taste to present‘ that successfully.
Bands like idletime (and I think
“Widespread” as well) will have to
hone these elements through gigs
and time together, a long, slow path.
It’ s a route that can pay off, but, until
then, tracks that last longer than ﬁve

minutes should be strongly
avoided. Songs like “gus” would
be a lot more effective as a four-
minute, one-solo showcase than a
small epic rambling around nine min-
utes. People’s attentions wane fast
(mine included), especially in our
Britney-Ricky era. Additionally, the
CD’s production is loose: the few
vocals are sometimes underrnixed,
and the drums sound way too thin
and tinny. All together, the album
suffers from too much high-end,
treble frequency, no depth/warrnth
of sound, and no dynamic contrast.

The boys are building chops on
the road, and I am especially im-
pressed by Aaron’s funky bass
work. idletime show promise, but it
will take a year or so of together-
ness to tighten arrangements. There
must be something about idletime,
but I’m waiting to see for myself.
Perhaps I will be proven seriously
wrong when the shows starts
Wednesday night.

 

motivated self-starter!

F

I writing lyrics that include at least eight profani-
ties a line. Previous songwriting or musical expe-
rience absolutely unnecessary!

Latin Kings Crime Syndicate
—— Street Pimp. '

Resumes are now being accepted for the posi-
tion of street corner pimp. Desired Qualiﬁcations:
at least 4th grade education, and 2-3 years experi-
I ence as mid-level drug pusher. Duties include
maintaining and updating a database of hoes and
johns, networking with our clients and occasional
beatings. Must be a people-person, and a highly-

JOB] INTERNSHIP PAIR!

Wednesday, Feb. 30, 2-5 p. m. in the

Science Center

. check out these great career
opportunities!

e.com — e-slacker.

We at e.com are committed to providing Internet solutions to today’s e-businesses. I
What does that mean? ABSOLUTELY NOTHING! We just sit around the office
I watching CNBC all day and watching our stock prices soar through the roof! Come J
join us — salaries start at four million a year.

Neverland Ranch — Intern. ,

Greetings from Michael Jackson’s Neverland Ranch! If you're a recent college
grad, or a boy 8-13, the Neverland Ranch has an exciting career opportunity for
you! Duties include llama-herding, maintenance of oxygen tanks, minor reconstruc-
tive surgery, light typing, and oral sex. A Thriller of a time guaranteed for all!

Epitaph Records — Songwriter.

Would you like to work as a songwriter for the # 1 punk record label in the world?
Do you know at least three power chords on the guitar? If the answer to both of
these questions is yes, then we’d like to hire you! Duties include writing music easy
enough to be played by a baby chimpanzee and

 

  J 
cjournalism majors?’  

 

  

  
   
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Y.

3’.

¥

X’

C

 

 

