  

,4

X

4 $78. 755’

    

’ ’ iJ¥?l\1i.7[g;t,:g;;Iy
R9 9 2 a .>..w'~ ¢..~’.t'-I’f’v’if5l£!£Til¥=z
V. /02. ezaarr

I90. 2,!

VOLUME 102, No.21

Two freshmen
face SJ C trial

Students allegedly pull ﬁre alarms prior
to Feb break; may be suspended or ﬁned

By Polly Doig

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

Two freshmen will face a Student Ju-
diciary Council tiial this week, following
an incident of two fire alarms going off
in Grahain-Lees and Baker dormitories
the Friday before February break.

On the aftemoon of Feb. 11, dorm
counselors Jim McKnight and Michael
Crittenden were watching a movie on
the second ﬂoor of the dorm when the
fire alarm went off. They spotted three
men racing around the dorm, gave chase,
and apprehended them. McKnight and
Crittenden then referred the names to
security. I

Freshmen Andrew Juge and Brendan
Malone were initially suspended for the
remainder of the academic year on
Thursday aﬁemoon, with the option of
reapplying for admission next year. Fri-
day, however, the decision was changed
and they were given an SJC trial.

The third freshman, J .P. Hyland, was
with Juge and Malone but apparently
did not pull an alarm himself, and will
not face trial.

Following their suspension, Juge
and Malone circulated a petition on
Thursday evening in protest of the de-

cision, collecting an estimated 400-500
signatures. Further controversy arose
over the question of student self-gov-
emance. According to Dean of Fresh-
men Mark Dalhouse, there are several
disciplinary options outlined in the stu-
dent handbook, ranging from referral to
the SJC to suspension.

“My initial response was to go ahead
with the suspension, but that started a
debate about student self-govemance,”
Dalhouse said. “The issue is fire safety,
so I felt that at that point it was wisest to
hand it overto the SJC to decide on pun-

ishment.”
Dalhouse explained that he opted for

the harsher punishment because this
incident is not isolated.

“We’ve had an ongoing problem with
pulled alarms this year,” Dalhouse said.
“And now kids don’t know when to
leave the dorms, because there have
been so many cases of pulled alarms. It
was to a crisis point.”

According to Dalhouse, most perpe-
trators have gotten away with pulling
alarms in the past. “This is the first time,
to my knowledge, that actual names
have reached my desk,” he said.

The trial date is still uncertain, but is
expected to take place early this week.

 Ulicﬂing-tum {H

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNivERsrrY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2000

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
' SPRINGTERM ARRIVES? (left to right) Freshmen Lindsey Duran, Stacey Kimmel, Beth Gray, Avery Gholston and Jane Ledlie enjoy
the unseasonably warm weather experienced last week.

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

HEAui3ANGER’s BALL. Freshman Nick Ramsey, perspective student K.C. Wilson, freshmen
Jennifer Fallon, Liz Townsend, Matt Bracewell, sophomore Britt Shaffer and her date Jon
Schieffelbein dress the part at the Chi-Omega/Theta function Saturday night at Zollman’s.

Rep. Lewis to address W&L

Decorated Civil Rights leader to speak on his experiences

By Max Smith

NEWS EDITOR

Civil rights legend and Atlanta-area Congressman John
Lewis will speak in Lee Chapel tonight. Lewis’ speech,
sponsored by Contact, the Minority Students Associa-
tion, PRIDE, and the Ofﬂce of Student Affairs, will detail
his involvement in the Civil Rights Movement. The speech
begins at 8 p.m. and will be followed by a reception in the
Alumni House. -

“I’m really excited to see him because I ’ve heard he’s a
dynamic speaker and I ’m intrigued by his civil rights activ-
ism,” said MSA member Renita Perkins.

MSA sent Lewisan official invitation to speak last year.
He was slated to speak for Martin Luther King day, but
had to come today instead. As an elected ofﬁcial, Lewis
can’t accept a fee, but his travel expenses were paid for by
his campus sponsors.

Ryan Gielen, publicity chair for Contact, is especially
happy to have Lewis.

“This is the second year that we (Contact) have been
trying to put something together with PRIDE and MSA,”
Gielen said, “and finally we found a great speaker with an
incredible story to tell, so we booked him.”

John Lewis was born the son of sharecroppers outside
Troy, Ala. He grew up on his family’s farm and attended

I segregated public schools.

hi Dec. 1998, Pres. Bill Clinton presented the first Eleanor
Roosevelt Award for Human Rights to John Lewis. Lewis

also won the 1999 Franklin D. Roosevelt Freedom Medal.

In 1961, Lewis volunteered to participate in the Free-
dom Rides, which were organized to challenge segrega-
tion at interstate bus terminals across the South.

During the height of the Civil Rights Movement, from
1963 to 1966, Lewis was the Chairman of the Student Non-
violent Coordinating Committee (SNCC), which he helped
fomi. SNCC was largely responsible for the sit-ins and other
activities of students in the struggle for civil rights.

Despite his youth, John Lewis became a recognized
leader in the Civil Rights Movement. By 1963, he was rec-
ognized as one of the “Big Six” leaders of the Civil Rights
Movement. Lewis, at the age of 23, was one of the plan-
ners and a keynote speaker at the historic “March on Wash-
ington” in Aug., 1963.

In 1965, Lewis and Hosea Williams led 525 marchers
across the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Sehna, Ala. State troop-
ers attacked the marchers in a confrontation that became
known as “Bloody Sunday.” That fateful march and a sub-
sequent march between Sehna and Montgomery, Ala. led
to the Voting Rights Act of 1965. '

Despite more than 40 arrests, physical attacks and seri-
ous injuries, John Lewis remained a devoted advocate of
the philosophy of nonviolence.

Lewis coauthored “Walking with the Wind: A Memoir
of the Movement” with writer Michael D’Orso. The book
is a firsthand account of this nation’s civil rights move-
ment. In May 1999, John Lewis received the prestigious
Robert F. Kennedy Book Award.

 

80’s group Run DMC to

headline 2000 FD concert

Rap pioneers bring a little “old school”, mixed reactions, to Vegas

Michael Crittenden
ASSOCIA TE EDITOR

Washington and Lee students have to dig up some
Adidas warm-ups and gold chains for this year’s Fancy Dress
kickoff concert featuring old-school rap messiahs Run DMC
and the Sugarhill Gang.

The concert, held annually the Thursday night before
Washington and Lee’s Fancy Dress ball, will feature the two
pioneering rap groups whose heyday may have been in the
80s, but who SAB President Dave Levinson hopes will draw
a large crowd to the Pavilion on Thursday night.

“These guys are the pioneers of the rap movement, and
it should be a pretty fun concert,” Levinson said. “People
should come dressed in their best 805 clothes and be ready
for a great time.”

Levinson said that another reason for students to make
sure they attend the show is that the word on the street is
that this could be the last tour for both groups. “Students
have to catch them now or forever hold their peace,” he said.

Born in Hollis, Queens, Run DMC features childhood
friends Run, DMC and Jam Master Jay. Most famous for
their cover of Aerosmith’s “Walk This Way,” the first cross-
over rock and rap duet was one of MTV’s most played vid-
eos of all time. Run DMC was also famous for songs such as
“Christmas in Hollis”, “You be lllin’”, and “My Adidas”.

Though they have been overtaken by the rap genre they
themselves spawned, Run DMC remains a recognized act
that students are expecting to kick freestyle at the Pavilion.

“I think it should be pretty cool,” freshman Glenn Delaney
said. “They were a little before my time, so it should be cool
to hear some of the masters of the Old-school.”

Like DMC, Sugarhill Gang are one of the original rap
groups, and are credited with the first mainstream rap hit,
the 80s urban anthem “Rapper’s Delight” which in addition
to billions of hours of air play across America, has also been
covered and sampled from by a number of artists. Featuring
the lyrical stylings of Wonder Mike, Big Bank Hank, and
Master Gee, Sugarhill Gang promises to put on a great show.

Student reaction has been fairly positive so far, though
some students have made comments about the group’s age.
One student even commented that he was afraid the mem-
bers of Sugarhill might have a heart attack on stage, but that
aside, he was looking forward to throwing on his Adidas
and bumping the night away.

According to Levinson, the SAB went through a lot of
work to land the two _famous groups. In the end, the deci-
sion was made based on DMC/Sugarhill’s popularity, fa-
mous name, and availability. One SAB source said that the
group also looked at bands such as George Clinton and P-
Funk, moe, James Brown and Bela Fleck, but that because of
scheduling problems and unavailability, Run DMC and
Sugarhill got the call.

The concert doors open at 8 p.m. on Thursday, and the
concert will most likely start around 9. Tickets go on sale
this week in front of the Co-op, $12 for students with their
W&L cards, and $15 for everyone else. Tickets will also be
on sale at the door for $15 for everyone.

February 28, 2000

OPINION:
Perspectives: Beware! !

W&LIFE:
Lights, luck, luxury. . . Vegas

SP(_)RTS2_ _
Spring’s in the air

LAST WORD:
FD FAQs

@112 ﬂing-tum lﬂlii

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

PAGE 5

PAGE 6

photo by Emily Barries/Photo Editor
GivE’EM HEci<!:Junior David Sigler
winds up in this past week’s game.

 

PAGE 2

Ellie ﬂing-tum lﬂtii

  NEWS

piiulu vy bmlly names/rnoto I‘.dlt0l'

 “PUT ME IN COACH, I’M READY TO PLAY!” Spectators at last week’s baseball game carry the tailgate tradition over into February.

, The parking garage saga continues.
.' Originally slated to open this week, the
' tentative opening date has been moved
back to March 15.
The garage is four levels high and
has a capacity for 607 vehicles.
During regular business hours, the
garage will be open to all faculty, staff
and visitors. Commuting students and
students living in the sorority houses
also will be allowed to use the garage.

  

E-mail General Notes to 
II

 

West-Settle to give Class of ‘62 lecture

Cecile West-Settle, associate professor of romance lan-
guages at Washington and Lee University, will present this
year’s Class of 1962 Fellowship Lecture on Wednesday,
March I at 7 p.m. in Leybum Library’s Northen Auditorium.
The title of her lecture is “Sleeping Beauty Awakes: Vital
,Mo(nu)ments in the Recent Poetry of Luisa Castro.” The
lecture is open to the public and a reception will follow.

The Class of 1962 Fellowship Program was established in
1987 with a gift of an endowment to support the scholarship
and research of the undergraduate faculty.

The Class of 1962 presented the gift at its 25th reunion

-..“to acknowledge its indebtedness and gratitude to the Uni-
versity for the undergraduate education it received and to
.make an expression of the gratitude in a manner that will
beneﬁt the University in a substantial way.”

The funds are awarded in conjunction with an approved
full-year faculty leave research project. Upon completion of

_ the leave year, each Class of 1962 Fellow presents the re-
., sults of the project to the University’s faculty and students.

West-Settle received her B.A. in 1966 from Agnes Scott
College and Ph.D. in 19th and 20th century Spanish litera-
ture in 1983 from Emory University. She joined the W&L
faculty in 1987 after teaching Spanish at Virginia Military
Institute from 1983 to 1987. Her ﬁeld of specialization is the

itontémporary prose and poetry of Spain.

Any»

93rd Fancy Dress Ball on March 3

Washington and Lee University will hold its 93 rd an-
nual Fancy Dress Ball on Friday, March 3 at the
University's Warner Center/Doremus Gymnasium complex.

The annual event has its origins in a costume ball that
fonner University librarian and drama teacher Annie Jo
White staged for her students in 1907. Over the years, the
Fancy Dress Ball has become the gala social event of the
year at W&L.

The theme for this year’s ball is “Lights, Luck,
Luxurydestination Vegas.” The black tie event annually
draws over 2,000 students, alumni and guests and will fea-
ture The Ray Caddell Swing Orchestra and Casper. The
event, sponsored by the Student Activities Board, gets
underway at 9:30 p.m.

Other Fancy Dress related activities include a concert
by Run DMC and The Sugar Hill Gang on Thursday night.

The garage contains two eleva-
tors. One elevator. is located near
the footbridge and another elevator
is located at the end of the garage
near the Lenfest Center. The first el-
evator has access from all four park-
ing levels, but _there is no access to
the Lenfest-side elevator from level
one of the garage.

To get to campus, walkways to
the original footbridge and Lenfest

Bored? Too much time to kill on a Sunday night?

HELP!

Work for the Phi. Don’t call us, and we’ll call you.

;Parking deck opening delayed

Center are located off level four of
the garage. The bridge to the new
sorority houses is located off level
three of the garage.

As soon as the garage opens, all
parking in the lots in front of Doremus
Gymnasium, the Williams School,
Reid Hall and the drive to the library
will close. Additionally, the driveways
behind the gym, the Lee House and
the dining hall will be used only for

      

Latin music comes to Lee Chapel

The Sol y Canto Trio will perform Latin American mu-
sic in Lee Chapel at Washington and Lee University on
Thursday, March 2 at 7:30 p.m. Namu, a Ugandan story-
teller, musician and dancer, will perform in Lee Chapel on
March 8 at 7:30 p.m.

Sol y Canto has been praised by the Boston Globe as
“sublime ambassadors of Pan-Latin tradition,” and are
known for their upbeat bilingual Afro-Latin and Carib-
bean dance and folkloric rhythms.

Named for the sun (sol) and for song (canto) the trio
combines the talents of Puerto Rican/Argentine singer/
percussionist Rosi Ambor with those of her husband,
the New Mexican guitarist/composer Brian Amador, and
of the Spanish/British/Puerto Rican vocalist and multi
instrumentalist Alan del Castillo. ’

In addition to their rich three-part hannony vocals, the
ensemble performs on Spanish guitar, bongos, a multi-
tude of small percussion from all over Latin America, a
quena (bamboo ﬂute) and the Central American ocarina,
a small ceramic wind instrument.

The program includes a haunting Venezuelan tonada,
a percussion—driven Afro-Uruguayan candome and a Cu-
ban son. The group will also perform a ﬂamenco guitar
solo, a bilingual lullaby, an Afro-Peruvian lando, a Brazil-
ian ijex, and Argentine tango and a danceable Puerto
Rican bombas and plenas.

Sol y Canto has recorded several CD5, among them
Senero del Sol and Sancocho, chosen by the Boston Globe
as one of the ten best recordings of 1994.

The concert is sponsored by the ofﬁce of international
education at W&L, with support by the Pickens Endow-
ment for the Performing Arts. There is no charge for ad-
mission and all are invited to attend.

Cable Two to rebroadcast Mock Con

Washington and Lee’s Cable Two station will rebroad-
cast selected speeches from Mock Convention 2000. All
broadcasts begin at 8 p.m.

The schedule is Monday, March 6 sessions I and II
with former Sen. Bill Brock (R-Tenn.), Gov. Frank Keating
(R-Okla.), Mayor of Jersey City Bret Schundler, Virginia
Attorney General Mark Early and Republican National
Chairman Jim Nicholson.

Tuesday, March 7 sessions [I and III with Rep. J.C.
Watts (R-Okla.), Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and former
Secretary of Education Bill Bennett. Wednesday, March

session III features Sen. Bob Dole, the 1996 Republican

presidential nominee.

  

again

service vehicles. Limited parking will
remain in front of the security ofﬁce
for service vehicles and handicapped
parking.

The total net gain in parking is ap-
proximately 350 spaces, with 100 of
those spaces designated for the new
sorority houses.

Broadcast voice and e—mail mes-
sages will be sent out to the campus
community with the ofﬁcial opening
date for the garage. Information also
will be posted on the web at
www.wlu.edu/news.

— courtesy Brian Logue

 

FEBRUARY 28, 2000

Alcohol a factor in

most student arrests rt

Veteran officer offers insights on LPD

By Daniel Sozomenu
STAFF WRITER

It’s no big secret that students at
Washington and Lee enjoy alcohol.
While drinking is something that’s
usually sloughed off as an excess of
the young, in Lexington, the indul-
gence is more like a plague.

According to Lexington patrolman
Mike Hess, 80 percent of his arrests in
the ﬁve years he’s been here have
been alcohol related. This includes di-
rect infractions such as DUI’s (Driv-
ing Under the Inﬂuence), MIP’s (Mi-
nor in Possession) and public drunk-
enness, as well as indirect infractions,
such as assault and vandalism stem-
ming from alcohol.

“I think it’s partly the university’s
fault,” Hess said. “For those first
couple weeks at the beginning of the
year, they have those fraternity par-
ties which basically encourage under-
age drinking.”

Hess isn’t just railing out against
what he thinks is generally irrespon-
sible behavior. He’s generally con-
cerned for the safety of the students.

“Every Friday or Saturday night in
the ﬁve years I’ve been here, wouldn’t
a night go by without ﬁnding a co-ed,
drunk as a skunk, wandering around
alone on the streets of Lexington,”
Hess said. “If a serial rapist off the
interstate, or some sort of sexual preda-
tor, found about this place, he’d be
having a buffet.”

While that may sound slightly
crass, Hess’s point resonates. He feels
that Washington and Lee students get
a false sense of security in their bu-
colic little community, and ultimately
put themselves in danger.

Coincidentally, Hess states that the
increase in alcohol related arrests ac-i
tually ensures the students the safety
they otherwise may be jeopardizing.

LIKE FREE TICKETS?

LIKE GOOD MUSIC?

The NEW WLUR 91.5 FM will
be giving away your chance to
win free WLUR CD5 and free
tickets to the April 6 Red Hot
Chili Peppers & Foo Fighters
show in Roanoke. Listen
between 5 and 5:30 p.m.

everyday this month to win.

ROCK 2-8 P.M. EVERY WEEKDAY
RAP — 8-12 A.M. WED. & FRI.
DANCE -- 8-12 A.M. THURS.

SKA — 8-10 P.M. MON.

“We know that in jail, you’re not
going to get hurt that night, or raped,
or put yourself in a position to hurt
yourself,” Hess said. “You sober up
in a safe environment where you’re su-
pervised.”

While this may sound benevolent,
there’s a deeper logic behind this prac-
tice: the police department’s own
safety from litigation. The police de-
partment may actually be held ac-
countable for negligence should an
officer stop a student on the street for
drunkenness, and simply let that stu-
dent go with a warning. Should some-
thing happen to that student thereaf-
ter, the police department may be held
accountable for his or her welfare.

“If you think about it, I am the last
person who has a chance to put that
student someplace safe,” Hess said.
“If something happens to that student
after I’ve seen him, it’s technically my
fault.”

Hess says that he and other ofﬁc-
ers often feel that an arrest is unfair,
and instead will summon W&L secu-
rity to safeguard the student and bring
the student home. Still, that doesn’t
alleviate the liability issue.

“Technically, if a security ofﬁcer
bringsiyou home, he is supposed to
stay with you until you sober up,”
Hess says. “Otherwise, W&L could
face the same sort of problems.”

One other reason for the increase
in arrests is officers’ individual discre-
tion. Hess notes with joviality that
some ofﬁcers, particularly recent ad-
ditions to the force, are a little more
zealous to show that they’re enforc-
ing the law.

“What they see as a major infrac-
tion may not be seen as such by some-
one with more experience,” Hess says
with a smirk. “Me, I’ve been on the
job 25 years. I don’t have to prove

anything to anybody.”

   
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
     

‘K

J

(

r
I

2*‘:

  

I

5

i

 

FEBRUARY28,2O00

O PiN‘““ibN

PAGE3

. Calling home

My mom called the other day and we had a lovely
discussion. She was surprised that I was so talkative and
pointed out that our telephone conversations are usually
painful. I had to agree. Normally, mom talks about the
neighbors’ children and people whom I don’t know or
care about. I just sit there interjecting a random, “Oh re-
ally,” “That’s funny,” or “Interesting.”

What seems like two hours later (probably only ﬁve
minutes), dad gets on the phone bitching me out for be-
ing so stupid. His points make perfectly logical sense. In
all honesty I am
an immense fool
when dealing
with practical
matters. Dad’s a
practical guy;
I’m not. For in-
stance, my Spring Term course registration opened at 3
p.m. on Friday. I forgot about it even though many people
reminded me, asking “So Pesce, what classes are you
taking Spring Term?” I responded, “Phooey yo, I forgot
to register.” Luckily, I remembered before my window
closed on Sunday afternoon. So the answer to the ques-
tion is, “My last history seminar,” for anyone who cares.
Life is all about details, and I just do poorly with details.
So I guess that speaks poorly about me on life, but I deal.

Anyway, mom gives the phone to dad who complains
about my ﬁnancial management skills. “Take an account-
ing or business class, you idiot.” “But dad, I’m not good
with money.” “Yes, genius, that is why you need to take a
business class.” “But shouldn’t I concentrate on my
strengths?” “One day your life will depend on your abil-
ity to perform well on those aspects of life at which you
have proven incompetent.” “Yes dad, I know.” “Here, your
mother has something else she wants to tell you.” “Ok”
“I forgot to tell you what happened to Mr. Pela at choir
rehearsal. Blah, blah, blah.” “Oh really.” “Wak wak wak
wak. Wak wak wak wak wak wak. Wak wak.” “Interest-
ing.” Then our weekly duty ends.

This recent phone call, however, differed from most.
Mom began by telling me, “Dad is out doing your job.”
“Cutting the grass?” “Of course. He’s already complain-
ing about the heat. It’s been 80 degrees and humid here
all week.” Then we made fun of dad’s barrage of com-
plaining. We talked about the Mardi Gras excitement back
home. Then we made fun of my brother for cutting his
hand on a beer bottle. Silly Doug!

Next mom told me about her upcoming dental work —
three root canals. Fun stuff. We talked about how ugly
her teeth are. I told her that she needs dentures. Getting
upset, she cracked some mean “yo momma” jokes. She
really knows how to go for the jugular. I knew it at age
ﬁve when I used to say, “Meannie,” and get smacked
upside the head.

So dad came in from cutting the grass and gave me a
little pop quiz. “How much money is currently in your
checking account? How much have you charged to the
Visa card?” I asked to poll the audience. He was not
amused. I thought I was pretty darn clever. I’m still pat-
ting myself on the back for that one.

In any case, mom got back on the phone and we talked
for a while longer. She said that she enjoyed the phone
call and told me that most of the time I am not fun to talk
to. I took issue with that comment. I talk to myself all the
time. I get quite a kick out of my conversation.

Well, even if this article has meant nothing at all to you
and you feel dumber for having read it, it means a lot to
me. I use it as a type of psychotherapy. Perhaps next time .
I will tell you all about the Pesce family Thanksgiving
dinner. Introducing the crazy character of my grandfather

provides much amusement.

 

Off His Rocker
Stephen Pesoe ’01

 

Ellie iling-tum ilﬁhi

Executive Editor Polly Doig
Associate Editor Michael Crittenden
News Editor Max Smith

Opinions Editor
W&Life Editor

Sports Editor

Last Word Editor
Photo Editor

Assistant Photo Editors

Stephanie Bianco
Elianna Marziani
Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin
Emily Barnes

Lisa Lin

Dave Hanson
Tiffany Friedel

Layout Editor Neal Willetts

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent. ‘

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Ofﬁce: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wIu.edu
http.‘//wlu. edu/-phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

SPRING TERM IN FEBRUARY? Professor Kary Smout took advantage of the beautiful
Writing class outside on the steps of Lee Chapel.

photo by someone/Assistant Photo Editor

weather last week and taught his Advanced Creative

1,001 things: Lack of climate control

Perhaps it is the recent arrival of warm weather that has
compelled me to whine about warmth this week, though
more likely it is simply my constant urge to complain to
anyone willing to listen directing my gripes. Hey, lucky

« you.

I for one am very happy that Mother Nature has de-
cided to bless this place with sunshine and humidity (if
only I had curly hair that could be a whole different article)
— kind of makes those of us who went
somewhere warm feel a little stupid and
those of us who went. . . uh, home a
little less gypped.

The Hill has once again resumed its
lazy lounger lawn décor and there is an
air of joviality among students. Going to class is that much
more distasteful with the sun pouring through the window
and the very loud co-op talkers’ conversation permeating

 

through layers of concrete and brick to remind you of life _

outside. The lure of warm rooms as an escape from the
bitter, windy cold outside is no longer as potent as it once
was. . .

Though, let’s be honest here. I was certainly never lured
into the C-School because of warmth. In fact, the C-School
and, well, pretty much every other building on campus,
has the most wackjob heating system, I think it is safe to
say, in the entire country.

I mean, you would think that with enough money and
trustees to build sorority houses and reseed the front lawn
every other week someone could ﬁnd a way to install a
normal heating device. Oh, but no! That would be too
easy. It seems no one has even made an effort at tempera-
ture control.

I suspect the whole control part has been neglected
and the heating plant has been allowed to develop a mind
of its own entirely. Instead, with every class, your body is
forced to spend a good portion of the hour acclimatizing
to any number and extreme of temperatures.

But let’s take the C-School as the first example. . . It is
hard enough to have to pay attention during class when it
would be so much nicer to be sitting on a bench, but slowly
roasting to death only adds to the agony. Once your body
has adjusted to the horriﬁc shock on entering the C-School
(the actual weather outside makes no difference because
no matter what season it is, the building will be the exact
opposite temperature outside), it is doubly hit upon enter-
ing any one of the classrooms. What’s more, there is no
escape.

. There is no opportunity to crack a window and allow
sweet breezes to waft in and relieve you. In fact, friends,
do not even try to open the windows, it will be in vain,
because for some very unusual reason they are conve-

 

, Lhgmmeﬁﬂlﬁnp
 Katy Harding ’01

niently painted shut. And, as if that wasn’t enough, it
takes a rocket scientist to put the damn blinds down, so
along with being sweated out you will be burnt out as
well.

The problem here though, is that you caimot prepare
for this kind of interior weather by dressing in bathing
suits because if you have a class in a different room, then
chances are you will freeze to death (um. . . can you say
room 327).

I go from being red from heat ex-
haustion to blue from hypothermia. If
you are lucky enough to find a func-
tioning computer in the lab then you
are sure to turn into an ice block and
if you are lucky enough to get a couch in the library then
you will suffer second-degree burns from over exposure
to the sun.

There is no happy medium. I don’t even know if this
has been proven, but I will make guess that extremes in
temperature are not good for a human body.

This kind of dueling temperatures is not just an idio-
syncrasy of the C-school either. No! Students of every
major get to experience the wonder that is W&L climate
control (what control?!?!). If you walk into the Registrar’s
office any month before December and any date aﬁer Feb-
ruary then you have to be outﬁtted by polar expedition
experts — the air conditioning as well as the attitudes are
perpetually set to frigid.

Yet, once again, if you enter the adjoining J-School
then you have to promptly strip to compensate for the
heating overkill. Your body is constantly questioning what
hotness to anticipate next. However, it’s not as if you can
expect any regularity further down the Colonnade.

It seems that though new, the Science Center utilizes
the same heating philosophy as the rest of campus (or it
could also be that it is essentially a greenhouse that makes
that building insanely hot).

Oddly enough, the only building that seems to main-
tain some endurable temperatures is the Library. But, there
it is a win-lose situation. Yes, you won’t have tote your
personal fan and wool sweater along with you, but rather
than die from heat exhaustion, your eyes will be seared
shut from having to stare at the beautifully colored walls
for too long.

You know, people, it’s the little things that make a
difference; the 250th imprinted napkins, the cabbage
plants on the island near Security. Inherently these
things are taken for granted and you don’t really miss
the until they are gone. Well, I never thought that I
would miss dependable air temperature. It’s kind of
irritating actually.

uote of the Week:

 

I can do it, alright. I know
all about making love.

— Anonymous junior girl

Staff
  Editorial

We could not silently stand by as the Admissions Office
changed this year’s Honor Scholar “weekend” to the Sun-
day, Monday, and Tuesday of this week. In this oh-so-
subtle change, they deprived us of all the fun and excite-
ment of Honor’s Scholars past. Some examples: that guy
and the girl in Newcomb, exploring each other’s “academic
records” late night; that famous ice luge/hall crawl night at
Pika three years ago that was the downfall of many a present
junior; the HS who unable to find his way home from Red
Square and just climbed a tree and spent the night there.

This year, however, we will have no such stories to tell,
and more importantly, neither will they. We understand that
the focus is an academic contest, but it is also a chance for
the Admissions Ofﬁce to bring some perspectives here who
may be on the bubble or need some convincing, and to sell
our school to them. We all know a large part of this school
is the social scene; yeah we have great academics, but what
is unique is the dynamic between social and academic life.

So in our mission to provide the public with the informa-
tion that they need, here goes. To the Honor Scholars, even
though you won’t see a lot of it if any, this school parties
like no other and that’s the way we like it. Over 75 percent of
us are Greek, like to drink, and have a great time partying.
There is a reason we are rated one of the top drinking schools
in the country, because it’s true. Some would say that this
isn’t a selling point for these impressionable youths, but
we would rather have them know and make their decision
based on a true knowledge of the school they are choosing.
So with that knowledge in hand kiddies, good luck, make
the right decision for you, and remember that if you do go
out, that a tree is never a good place to spend the night. i

ii

TALI{back...Why are you looking forward to FD?

“It will be nice to see the work
ﬁnished and to have a life again.”
-Catlierine Mead ’01

“I want to see how our work pays off
and how people respond to it.”
-Latrina Stokes ’02

“I decorated the entryway and
first impressions are important.”
-Graham Frankel ’02

 

“The theme is really fun and
lighthearted.”
-Emily Hager ’02

 

 

PAGE 4 '

  5 : i (I112 filing-tum iﬂlii

IFE

FEBRUARY 28, 2000

By Eliarma Marziani
F EA TURES EDITOR

With Mock Con barely over, an-
other huge event looms in the near
future, “The social event of the
South”: FD. The person responsible
for bringing it all together? Wash ing-
ton and Lee University junior
Catherine Mead.

Mead is double majoring in poli-
tics and European history and plans
on using neither of them in her life
profession. She hopes to do events
planning after college, planning cor-
porate PR events such as large par-
ties and banquets. “I can’t imagine
a deskjob. I need to be moving, so
[events planning] keeps me on my
toes,” she said.

Last year she was the FD deco-
rations subcommittee chair, and last
spring she decided to apply to be
the FD chair this year. She is very
excited about the progress so far
and promises, “This year, we’re go-
ing all out for Vegas!”

Recently she has been devoting
40 hours a week to FD preparations.
She doesn’t begrudge the time and
work at all, though. “It just has to
get done,” she said. “It’s fun. I
wouldn’t change it.”

Somehow she manages to balance
the time commitment of FD with being
the Kappa Delta sorority president and
a participant of club softball.

Q: What was your favorite Hal-
loween costume growing up?

A: “A genie costume [like from
“I dream of Jeanie”]. I wore a purple

Signature Student
Ga/£er1he 77(ea0/ ’0]

leotard under it, and there were sheer
billowing pants and a little hairpiece
thing with a veil over my eyes.”

Q: Who is your hero? And why?

 

Photo courtesy of the Calyx

A: “My mom.That could take up
a whole article . . . Ijust really ad-
mire her strength, her integrity, and
the fact that she’s always been my
best friend.”

Q: What are your favorite quotes
or life mottoes?

A: “Laugh at least once a day.”

“There’s no shame in trying and
losing. There’s only shame in not
trying at all.”

Q: If you had to give up either
the ability to see, to hear, or to
speak, which would it be?

A: “Probably to speak. I couldn’t
give up seeing . . . you can commu-
nicate so much emotion with your
eyes. And I’d hate to not be able to
hear my friends’ and family’s
voices.”

Q: By what words do you hope
to be remembered?

A: “Honest, trustworthy, and
genuine.”

Fancy Dress presents a night in Vegas

By Elianna Marziani
F EA TURES EDITOR

FD. The two letters on everyone’s
lips and consistently running through
everyone’s (or at least all the
girls’) minds. What exactly is
it? We all know that it is “the
social event of the South” and
“W&L’s $80,000 answer to
prom,” but what exactly is it?
The answer is: another W&L
tradition that keeps campus the
happiest in the nation (or at
least really close).

Usually in the middle of win-
ter term, the term notorious for
being the most cruel both to
freshman guys and the GPA-
conscious, the Fancy Dress
ball is a break, a night of fun,
kicking back, and letting things
go on the dance ﬂoor. The fun
is a constant in all the FD’s
W&L has had. The difference
each year comes with the
theme, which determines the
decorations, some students’

mittee open up in the fall of the follow-
ing year. This year, a little less than 50
people are on the FD committee, bro-
ken down into seven other sub-com-
mittees: decorations (which is then

Entertainment at FD will include
Casper and the Ray Caddell Swing
Orchestra, plus a few surprises that
people will ﬁnd out there. There will
be a rafﬂe for the opportunity to win a

it will look like] a surprise so we don’t
give it all away.” Mead said.

The committee and contract work-
ers moved in to the Pavilion on Feb. 5,
and a few people stayed over Feb
Break to work.

“Now’s the really
big crunch time,”
Mead said.

The group moves
into Warner center on
Tuesday to begin set-
ting up there.

Only those on the
committee know ex-
actly what to expect
the gym to looklike
when FD rolls around
Friday nightat 9p.m.,
but those who have
experienced FD be-
fore know to expect
something great.
Last year the theme
was “Le Bal Masque:
a Renaissance ofthe
First Fancy Dress
Ball.” The theme was

outﬁts, and the general level
of excitement on campus.

FD has had almost every
theme one could think of (which makes
the jobs of the steering committees a
little harder), from the Chinese Court
of Chu Chin Chow (1921) to the C010-
nial Ball (1932) to King Arthur’s Court
(1950) to the Lost Cities of Gold (1984).
A 1963 pre-F D cocktail party in honor
of the chairman had a Playboy theme.
Themes have varied, but the wonder-
ful experience of Fancy Dress-goers
has remained the same due to the hard
work of the FD Steering Committee.

The FD Chair is chosen in the
spring, and other positions on the com-

28- 

Sophomores begin Spring term Web
* F istratibri at assigned times.
.‘,‘Ralph,E1lison’s Juneteenth:
, , ,g‘'the Narrative Color Line,’;..
F F Callahan. Room 327, C-school.

. W&L vs. Stetson Univer-

ityicourts.

Qspirituaiiiy and Healirigi'nJu'- 
, anessa0chs,University ofVir'- . “
com 327, Williams School. , -

istration at assigriedvtimes.

CLOTHING DRIVE!

SPONSORED BY THE PANHELLENIC COUNCIL
TO BENEFIT PROJECT HORIZON

Donations will be collected in Leyburn Library
between Feb. 28 — March 8.

Any donations are greatly appreciated, but
especially formal wear, accessories and purses.
All items will be sold through Tempt Me,

a local consignment shop.

Come support this great cause!

   

a..-

broken down for speciﬁc comers of
the large gym, the small gym, the en-
trance, the balcony, and the hallway),
construction, entertainment, playbill,
memorabilia, public relations, and in-
vitations. A little over 20 other people
are serving as contract workers for the
dance, building and setting up deco-
rations in exchange for FD tickets for
themselves and their dates.

The theme is chosen in October but
kept secret (as much as possible at
such a small school) until the invita-
tions go out a couple weeks before
the dance, to build anticipation and
then extra excitement when they ﬁnally
do come out. Students returning from
Feb Break this year found their pull-
out deck of cards invitations announc-
ing this year’s theme: “Lights. Luck.
Luxury. . . destination Vegas.”

trip to Vegas. About 2000 invitations
have gone out for the event, to stu-
dents, faculty and staff, and some
alumni.

Decorations are the biggest ex-
pense and receive the biggest chunk
of the budget, because it gets expen-

sive to go out and buy decorations ,

and the makings for them, such as lum-
ber and paint.

Fancy Dress chair junior Catherine
Mead (’01) said that this year’s deco-

' rations will include lots of lights, bright

colors, and big decorations. There will
be a lighter tone to it, and yet it will
also incorporate some elegance. There
will be a lounge feel in part of it, yet
also the big buildings and lights as-
pect. Lots of things will,be,.built ona
large scale. F 1

“We’re trying to keep [exactly what

Most W&L students Lave

Based on wal cunt Survey
data tram 1998, 1999

Funded In: a grant from

Virginia nenartment 0' 
Mﬂllllﬂlili Beverage Cﬂlllflll

_ I Photo by Tiffany Frieder/Assistant Photo Editor
FD committee members work on decorations Saturday afternoon in the Pavilion.

  

that ofthe ﬁrst FD,
used again in com-
memoration of the
250th celebration ofthe school. The
big gym was set up to be a banquet
hall, like that ofa castle. The small
gym had a forest, a dragon’s cave,
and a stone chapel. The entrance to
the gym was a moat, and the hall-
way was set up to look like castle
walls.

Mead says to expect bigger and
better this year.

She says that the gym will look
great, and she hopes students really
get into it. “I’d love to’ see guys
dressed as Elvis or girls with boas. The
great thing about the theme is it gives
people the liberty to do as they wish
[dress in costume or not]. It’s not quite
as limiting.”

2‘ ’Most of all, she and the committee
hope people will enjoy living it up in
Vegas for a night.

  

I

I

 

 
     

 

FEBRUARY 28, 2000

Basebal1’s
hot streak

By Mike Weil

STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee Generals
aseball team went a perfect 3-0 this
week, edging Bates in a 11-10 thriller
efore sweeping a double header from
Muhlenberg, 4-3 and 17- 1.

The Generals jumped to an 8-2 lead
after four innings in their home opener
against Bates, but the Bobcats scored 8
runs in the 5th through 8th innings to
take a 10-8 advantage into the bottom
of the ninth.

Bates reliever Kevin Welsh retired
the first two batters of the inning but
the Generals rallied to tie the score at 10
when junior Jason May scored on an
error by the Bobcats’ second baseman.

The Generals then emerged victori-

ous in the 10th when sophomore catcher
Todd Gosselink singled past a brought-
in inﬁeld scoring senior Chris Stakem
for the winning run.
1‘ Stakem led the Generals at the plate,
going 2 for 4 with 3 RBI. Senior first
basemen Russell Wren went 3 for 5 on
the day and freshman Michael Hanson
notched the win by striking out two in a
perfect 10th inning.

Game one of the double header was
another thriller as the score was knot-
ted at three entering the bottom of the
kventh.

Freshman catcher Bobby Littlehale
broke the tie when he singled in senior
outﬁelder Jon Madden for the winning
rim. .

T Junior righthander David Sigler was
the star of the game, earning the com-
plete game three-hit Victory, striking out
eight and allowing no earned rims. '
., Game two was a break from the last
two thrillers, as the Generals blasted the
Mules in a 17-1 laugher.

W&L’s offense was led by senior

E112 Ring-tum lﬂhi

PORTS

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor‘

SEEING 11‘ THROUGH TO THE END: The Generals’ dugout looks on
during Wednesday’s 10-inning thriller against Bates College.

2 for 3 with four RBI and two rims.
Littlehale also starred again, going 3 for
5 with three RBI and two runs.

Hanson pitched brilliantly, going six
innings allowing only one earned run
and four hits for the victory. The sweep
gives the Generals needed momentum
heading into their ODAC opener on Sat-
urday.

“Obviously it was a step in the right
direction,”- said third baseman Matt
“Bingo” Kozora. “We struggled defen-

sively a little, but by the end of the sec-
ond Muhlenberg game, we found our
gloves.”

Playing at home doesn’t hurt either.
“It’s nice to have the support of all of
the fans,” said senior Andy Thompson.

With the sweep the Generals im-
proved to 4-4. They open the ODAC
season with a double header at
homeagainst Emory and Hemy on Sat-
urday. First pitch is set to be thrown at
noon.

econd baseman Mike Elder who went

asketball ends with ODACs

Men’s basketball makes noise
in tourney, comes up short

Women’s basketball falls in
quarterﬁnals to Roanoke

By Mike Weil

,. STAFF WRITER

By Robert Turner

STAFF WRITER

Using their ﬁrst road victory to earn the sixth seed in
the ODAC tournament, the Washington and Lee mens’
basketball team shocked Bridgewater in the quarterﬁnals
before losing to second seeded Roanoke in the semiﬁ-
nals.

The Generals jumped out early on Bridgewater for a
27-23 halftime lead. The Eagles fought back, however,
and had a 47-44 advantage with 2:23 to play. Senior
Brian Ricketts would then net a layup and add a free
throw for a three point play to tie the game.

W&L then went 8-8 from the line in the ﬁnal two
minutes en route to a 55-50 victory.

‘( The Generals were led by Ricketts, who notched a
double double with 11 points and 12 boards.

The story of the game was free throws, however, as
W&L went a perfect 19-19 from the line setting a school
record for percentage, and tying the ODAC mark.

)4‘ The Generals put up a hard-fought battle in the semi-
ﬁnals as well, but were edged 66-60 by second-seeded
and 20th ranked Roanoke.

W&L led for much of the ﬁrst half, and entered the
locker room with a 29-27 lead. The lead would hold
ilntil the 15:47 mark of the second half, when Colby
Leftwich hailed a layup for a 35-34 lead.

The Generals would never regain the lead, although
they continued to ﬁght and forced the eventual ODAC
champions to earn the victory.

W&L was led by freshman Ryan Small, who notched
14 points on three of ﬁve shooting from behind the arc.
Junior Will Ballard added 13 points and seven rebounds,
and Ricketts scored 10 points to go along with his ﬁve

oards. Ricketts also set "a new ODAC tournament
record by going 13-13 from the line in the two games.

For the game, the Generals shot 50 percent from the
floor, 50 percent from three-point land, and 75 percent
from the line. They played their hearts out in this ﬁnal
game of the season, and proved they could hang with
the top teams of the ODAC.

Rpanoke defeated national heavy-wieght Hamden
Sydeny, 69-63, to take home the ODAC championship.
Ricketts received an honorable mention in the ODAC.

“It was really big” [to play well in the tournament],
said freshman Will Cotter. “We have a young team, we
got a chance to see what potential we have.”

K Cotter stressed the importance of the seniors in this
young team’s development.

“The seniors were great for us. They were great lead-
ers and really dedicated to the team. A lot of kids in
their class quit, but they were the ones that stuck it out.
llt’s important for our freshman class to have the work
ethic they do.”

And as for the keys to becoming a top team in the

- ODAC? “We’ve got to keep our freshman class together,

-._ (1 make sure everyone’s priority stays on basketball,”
- said. “We need to follow the seniors’ example, and
»;®,’ll be successful.”

Washington and Lee's Women's basketball team closed
out their season Thursday witth a tough 72-58 loss to
Roanoke in the quarterﬁnals of the ODAC tournament in
Salem, VA. The Generals end their season with an overall
record of 13 wins and 12 losses, and a 10-10 regular season
ODAC record.

Before the ODAC tournament began, W&L faced a
tough series of road games against ODAC rivals. On Feb.
12 the Generals loss to the Roanoke Maroons 66-49 in a
preview of their tournament contest.

The Generals were led against Roanoke by sophomore
center reserve Leslie Fishback, who tallied her ﬁrst career
double-double with 1 1 points and 10 rebounds.

Two days later W&L traveled to Virginia Wesleyan
and were defeated 61-52 in a Valentine’s day match-up
before earning a victory at Eastern Mennonite 71-54 on
Feb. 16.

Against Eastern Mennonite, sophomore forward Jes-
sica Mentz scored an impressive 20 points in the first half,
and the Generals dished out 21 team assists while commit-
ting only 12 turnovers for the game. Coming off this vic-
tory, W&L appeared conﬁdent heading into their re-match
with Roanoke in the ODAC tournament.

The Generals struggled out of the gate against Roanoke
though, and shot only 29 percent in the first half while
turning the ball over 18 times.

The Maroons capitalized on W&L’s struggles, and shot
42 percent in the period en route to a 40-21 half-time ad-
vantage. Washington and Lee did not give up in the sec-
ond half though, and cut Roanoke’s lead to 12 points with
3:13 left in the game. The Generals could get no closer
though, and despite their efforts, ended up losing 72-58.

The Generals were led again by Jessica Mentz, who
poured in 14 points and grabbed 15 rebounds. Senior guard
Ansley Miller closed out her stellar W&L career with I 1
points, and sophomore guard Carter Thomas added 10
points and ﬁve rebounds.

Though the Generals’ season ended on a somewhat
sour note, it was another impressive year for the team.
They finished with a winning record, and for the second
consecutive year produced a .500 or better winning per-
centage.

They were also close to winning many other games,
games that will perhaps be won in the in years to come as
the Generals’ future looks promising.

Though the Generals will be hurt by the departure of
star seniors Jessica Morton and Ansley Miller (whose 1 1
points in the ODAC tournament gave her a record 1 , 1 65 for
her career), the returning players appear ready to pick up
the slack.

Returning next year for Washington and Lee are, among
others, all-ODAC honorable mention sophomores Megan
Babst and Jessica Mentz, along with Carter Thomas, Sarah
Schmidt, and Leslie Fischbeck.

With these solid players gaining more experience every
year, the future appears bright for the Generals.

Men’s lacrosse off and running  

By Steele Cooper

SPORTS EDITOR

The 2000 Washington and Lee
men’s lacrosse team provided no
suprises during thier ﬁrst two games
of the season this week.

First up for the Generals was Elmira
College. W&L came away from its sea-

son and home opener with the 17-7

win.

Picking up where he left off last
season was junior pre—season All-
American Matt Dugan. Dugan posted
four goals and two assists. Three of
Dugan’s goals came as a part of a
W&L ﬁve-goal unanswered streak
that would carry the Generals to the
half with a 10-3 lead.

Nine Generals found the back of the
net on Wednesday’s game including
Dugan. Senior Colin Dougherty
scored three goals and dished one
assist. Senior Chris Brown led the Gen-
erals in assists with four and notched
two goals.

Sophomore John Moore and Jun-
ior pre-season All-American Pope
Hackney also both scored two goals
apiece. Freshmen Rob Brown and Will
Sharp, Senior Greg Meyers, and Jun-
ior pre-season All-American Pete
Iwancio each added one goal for
W&L.

Junior Wes Hays made ten saves
at the goal for the Generals during his
54 minutes on the ﬁeld.

The Generals traveled to Greens-
boro, NC to face Greensboro College

 

PAGE 5

  

Photo by Tiffany Friedel/Assistant Photo Editor

DEAD IN Hrs TRACKS: Junior Pete Iwancio hands his man a ﬁrm
check during Wednesday’s home opener against Elmira College.

on Saturday. W&L handed the Pride a
stout beating, 23-7.

Dugan once again led the offense
with ﬁve goals and as many assists.
His ﬁrst two goals came as a part of
the three consecutive goals that the
Generals used to open the contest.
Dugan came back from the half with
the ﬁrst two goals of the third period
to give W&L a 13-2 lead.

The Generals have yet to fall be-
hind at any point in either of their first
two games.

Several other Generals had a mul-
tiple-scoring day on Saturday. Hack-

ney posted four goals and Meyers
came up with three.

Moore, junior Tom Burke, and
sophomore Andrew Barnett each
scored two goals on the day.

The Generals were able to work
three goalies into Saturday’s lineup.
Hayes led the group with four saves.

W&L hosts Washington College
on Saturday at 1:30. This match-up
should serve as a more accurate test
of the season to come than W&L’s fust
two easy wins. Washington handed
the Generals their only regular-season
loss last year, 8-9.

W&L records fall at ODACS

By Steele Cooper

SPOR TS EDITOR

While the ODAC Indoor Track
Championships on Saturday yielded
no great team ﬁnishes for the Gener-
als, several individuals delivered
standout performances and set new
Washington and Lee records.

Junior Marc Watson won the champi-
onship heat of the 55-meter dash, break-
ing the school record with an NCAA pro-
visional-qualifying time of 6.44 seconds.

Junior Amy Calce also smashed a
W&L record, leaping 16' 4.25" in the
longjump. In the face of tough ODAC
competition, however, Calce’s jump
only won her sixth place in the event.

In spite of such efforts, the Gener-
als lagged behind the rest of the ﬁeld
in team standings. The men’s squad
ﬁnished ﬁfth of the ﬁve teams at the
championships, and the women placed
fourth in the ﬁeld of ﬁve teams.

Other individual highlights for the
Generals included multiple second-

place ﬁnishes. The W&L women's
4x800 meter relay team ﬁnished sec-
ond in a time of 10:50.62, while the
men’s 4x400 relay squad also garnered
runner-up honors, breaking the tape
in a time of3:47.10. Senior Autumn
Oczkowski ﬁnished second in the
women's 800 meter run in a time of
2:28.25. . .

' The event was the ﬁnal team com-
petition of W&L’s indoor season and
the NCAA championships are sched-
uled for Mar. 10.

4.5:».-‘tn’ I32‘): .r‘)'-

Naturally. the c:«:3uritr“y’s prerriiere leadership ‘school

offers a renowned staff of courteous iristi~uctor*s.

 

 
   

 

I don’t know
why I call him

PAGE 6

ELAST WORD

Fancy Dress 2000 FAQ

By Kevin McManemin

BREAKFAST OF Cmw-1oNs

What is the theme of this year ‘s fancy dress ball?
According to the FD homepage, this year’s theme is
“Le Bal Masque, a Renaissance of the First Fancy Dress.”

Wasn ’t that last year ’s theme?
And how! The FD homepage hasn’t been updated in
over a year.

So what's this year ’s real theme?
I dunno. Something about dice. I think “Night at the
Craps Table.”

What band did the SAB get for FD this year?
Run DMC.

Come on, stop joking. What band is really playing?
Run DMC.

Jiminy Christmas, you weren't kidding? Those guys
are still around?
Apparently.

What decaying 80's band are we going to have next
year —— Bananarama?

I’m pretty sure it’s going to be Grandmaster Flash, as
part of the SAB’s continuing “let’s keep pretending the
average W&L student has even the slightest appreciation
for rap” campaign.

So anyway, where should I take my date for dinner?

That depends. If you’re looking to impress, go Wilson-
Walker or Sheridan Livery. If you’re going “as friends”
and already know there’s no chance of sex, just stick with
MickieD’s or Taco Bell.

That's outrageous.
The only thing that’s outrageous are the prices at the
Wilson-Walker House.

So is it true that a lot of people smuggle ﬂasks into the
gym on F D? -

Oh yes; the gym hasn’t been that full of ﬂasks since _i

Mock Con. At least this time the worst thing the drunk
people can do is throw up on their dates, rather than.,sub-
jecting the entire school to a mindless, drunken rant about
gun control.

That was pretty funny. Hey, is it true that one year at
Mock Con some students nominated Prof JD F utch for
Vice President of the United States, but the chair wouldn 't
recognize them?

Can we get back to FD questions, please?

The Rockbridge?

Sorry. Uh. . . what are your thoughts on taking road
school girls to the dance?

I say go for it. Road school girls are like riding a bike:
scary at ﬁrst, but surprisingly easy.

I hope you get lots of complaint letters for that line.
Me too.

So is it a good idea to stock up on the free condoms the
LIFE Committee gives out for FD weekend?

It doesn’t matter. Herpes is still going to be passed
around this campus faster than a bong at a Phish show.

Are you saying that abstinence is the only real pre-
vention against pregnancy and other se.xually-transmit-
ted diseases?

Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha .

Shut up.
Are we done yet? Can I go home?

I guess. Any last words of advice about FD?
Have fun, and try not to puke all over the decorations.

his fd preparations

Thursday Rent tux.
my Change into tux. Comb hair. Go to the Ball.

her fcl preparations

Sunday Drive to Roanoke with best friend to buy a
new dress.

Monday Drive to Harrisonburg to pick out some new
shoes to go with the dress.

Tuesday Try on dress. Well, that store in Roanoke
must have had faulty minors, because the dress you
picked out makes your hips look ENORMOUS. Drive
back to Roanoke to buy another dress.

Wednesday Drive to Charlottesville to buy new shoes
to go along with new dress.

Thursday Buy some new mascara and blush for the
dance. Make an appointment at the hairdresser’s.
Friday Skip classes to begin FD preparations at 9:30
a.m. That includes: haircut, manicure, brush teeth, use
mouthwash, shave legs, shower, blow-dry hair, apply
first layer of makeup, put on dress, drive to the store at
the last minute to buy new shoes, (upon second look,
the ones you had picked out really don ’t match) apply
second layer of makeup, style hair, put on perfume,
realize you don’t like that perfume, take it all olf, shower,
change, run to store to buy perfume you like, come
back, put on dress, restyle hair, put on shoes, apply
three layers of makeup and the new perfume, go to the
Ball

' /ID the/rres’

TRASH BAl2G€ TO §TAT€l‘l ISLAND

 

Friday Night at the Pawtuckctt, Rhode Island Vii (Iinic
The ruins of Pompeii: Orgius Romanus

DALLAS coweovs LOCKER ROOM
Community College Christmas A
Swarm! The Locust Infestation

A Day in the Lile of Robert Downey Jr.

FEBRUARY 28, 2000 ‘

NEW YORK
STYLE CRUST

gr»?

PIZZA, SUBS, PASTA, CALZONES,
SALADS, BEER ON PREMISES

student
travel.

plzzA

Under New
Management!

1213 N. Lee Hwy Next to Wal-Mart

463-3399

counciltravel.com
1-800-Zcouncil

£47’ IIV 01?
I14/(E 01/7'

 

“Independent

Vol. 8, No. 14 $1.95

A DYQCATIE.

February,2000

Clem Botetourt is concerned with the state of the
youth of Rockbridge County. “Them kids today, they
gets them some book leamin’ and suddenly they thinks
they too good to work down at the quarry no more, I tell
you what,” Botetourt said.

Botetourt is just one of a growing number of local
citizens who fear that Lexington’s historic industries —
like the quarry, Burger King and the tanning salon —
stand to lose their best crop of future employees should
the youth continue to be haunted by the gruesome spec-
tre of education.

Others cite education as responsible for a disturbing
demographic shift in the area. Only ﬁve years ago, al-
most half of Rockbridge County residents listed their
occupation as “hunting/gathering with stone—age tools.”
Today, only one-third of Rockbridge residents live as
primitive hunter-gatherers, while the ranks of the so-
called “educated” professionals such as doctors, law-
yers and record company executives continue to swell.

Mary Anne Saunders, President of the Lexington
Chapter of Christian Right Activist Parents, (CRAP) ob-
jects strongly to education as a tool of Satan. “If God
done wanted us to learn multiplication tables, he’d a put
‘em in the Bible,” Saunders said. CRAP advocates a
“Bible-based, Jesus—approved” educational system in
which objectional subjects such as science, math, phi-
losophy, history, English, music and art are replaced
with a strict regiment of Bible-reading and daily lash-
beatings.

But is it already too late to turn back the tide of edu-
cation from Lexington? As the following numbers indi-

Exclusive Report: Are
Lexington’
teaching too much?

s schools

cate, as many as one-third of the students in some local
educational institutions are passing basic competency
tests in given subjects:

Maury River Middle School
Reedin’ 34%
Ritin’ 23%
Countin’ 24%
Speekin’ good 42%
Walkin’ upright 59%
Rockbridge Area Regional Prison
Breakin’ rocks 53%
Makin’ plates 13%
Takin’ it 87%

cont. on pg. 17

 

“We're more than just hot dogs; we also serve fresh bagels,
‘International Wrapps’ and high protein smoothie.”

3 W. Nelson St. Mon. - Thurs. 8:00a.m. - 7 :00p.m.
Lexington, VA 24450 Fri. - 8:00a.m. - 9:00p.m.
540-464-1501 I Sat. - 11:00a.m. - 9:00p.m.

Inside

pgs. 3-16
13 pages of manifestos from
demented right-wing militia goons
pg. 35
great new possum soup recipe

pg. 24
adopt a trout

   

 

If you are a non-business major and you want to improve your marketability,

The Haas School of Business
at the University of California Berkeley
Summer BASE Program IS FORYOU!
july 5 - August I I, 2000
Learn the fundamentals of:
° Accounting ° Marketing
° Finance ° Organizational Behavior
° Hands-on market & ﬁnancial research
° Business related computer applications
0 Effective communication & presentation skills
° Prepare for the corporate recruiting process

 

Sophomores,juniors, and Seniors will beneﬁt from this rigorous, six-week
summer curriculum that will include lectures, case studies, company visits,
guest speakers and student presentations.

For more information, visit our website at
haas.berke|ey.edulUndergradIbase.htm|
or contact us via email at: BASE@haas.berke|ey.edu

 

