‘K

VOLUME 102, NO. 7

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsiTY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

 ‘Community
.of trust’ in
I question

Assault on student spurs concern, action
on the part of students and administration

1

By Heather McDonald
& Max Smith

STA FF WRITERS

Sleepy little Lexington is the place
that many Washington and Lee Uni-
versity students feel safest. However,

many members of our community are

questioning campus safety after an in-
cident that happened over a week ago.

Sunday, September 12, a W&L stu-
dent was assaulted when leaving
Leyburri Library around 9:30 p.m. Her
attacker pulled a knife on her and cut
her, but she managed to escape. The
attacker is still at large; he is described
as a college-aged white male, 5’8" or
taller, who wore a dark-colored base-

ball cap, a blue shirt and blue jeans.

The victim described the knife used as

a black-handled pocketknife.

“I definitely didn’t think something
like this would happen on campus,”
freshman Teddie Arnold said. Junior

Beth Myers agreed with Arnold.

“I took my safety for granted. Now
you have to look over your shoulder;
you hate not having someone with

you.
In response to the attack, the

Women’s Forum sponsored a Campus
Safety Walk last night. The march
throughout campus began at 9:50 p.m.,
exactly a week after the victim sought
help following the attack. About 40 stu-
dents, mostly women, showed up for
the walk. Participants were led by
Women’ s Forum chairs Nancy Reinhait,
Anne Sharrett and Melissa Sills, and
Dean David Howison joined the march-
ers as a faculty representative. The
walk began at Leybum Library and
made a circular route through campus,
until it ended at the site of the attack
outside the library roughly an hour
later. At the end of the march, partici-
pants signed a petition demanding bet-
ter lighting and a blue-light phone sys-
tem similar to VMI’s.
“It was great to see so much sup-
port,” Sills said. Reinhart agreed.
“Taking an active stance is the way
things will change,” Reinhart said.
One of the few male participants,
freshman Mike Jayson, said that he
participated for personal reasons.
“Five of my closest female friends
have either been attacked or raped,”
Jayson said. “Seeing the attitude on carn-
pus, Ithough it was importantto come.”

. « :4 ,'
photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Editor

TAKING BACK THE NIGHT: Sunday night’s vigil, organized by the Women’s Forum, walked the
campus in protest of safety problems brought to light by last week’s assault on a freshman girl.

As participants marched through
campus, they invited passersby to join
them. However, some of the passersby
made derisive comments, which notice-
ably upset and disturbed some of the
marchers. Howison made reference to
this at the end of the march.

“It takes a critical mass to challenge
negative attitudes when they come up,”
Howison said, following the march.
Earlier today, Howison met with the rest
of the administration at a breakfast meet-
ing and said he would discuss the peti-
tion and the march.

“I’m confident we can make these
changes,” Howison said last night.

photo bymEmily Blames/Photo Editoi'

I THE NEW LEXINGTON SKYLINE: The ﬁve new Sorority houses come a little closer to completion
each day as the builders work towards a Fall 2000 deadline.

Whitebook Review 
"Committee selected 

By Ann Whitham

STAFF WRITER

After a week of interviews and de-
liberation, the Executive Committee
announced the nine students who
will comprise the 1999-2000 White
Book Review Committee. The Com-
mittee includes members from each
undergraduate and law school class.

Rob Bailey ’00L will serve as
1999-2000 committee chairman.

=. Other committee members selected
Friday include: Jorge Aguilar ’O0L,
Daniel Grattan ’00, Kelly Sewell ’00,
Mary Elizabeth Whipple ’00,

I“ Caroline Sozzi ’0l, Allen Jones ’02,

I

A

Shelby McGrain ’02 and Cory Tuck
’03.
Commissioned every three years

to keep Washington and Lee’s honor

system handbook, the White Book,
attuned to the current student
body’s opinions, the Committee will
spend the next few months survey-
ing students and faculty. Using the
ideas they gather as a guide, the
members will present their revisions

to the Executive Committee in Janu-
ary.

Few major changes are usually
made to the White Book, but there
always seems to be one issue that
requires particular attention during
the review process. Three years ago
that issue was fake I.D.’s, as alum-
nus and former committee member
Nate Tencza ’99 remembers well.

“It was a painstaking process,”
Tencza said. “We were often in there
for hours going over every last pe-
riod and comma.”

This year the hot-button issue is a
throwback to a controversial honor
violation case from last year. After a
student was dismissed for misrepre-
senting himself by repeatedly using
another student’s ID card in the D-
hall, there was widespread discontent
and many are still calling for records
of the trial to be made public.

“I think breaching the closed trial
rule damages the system,” says
Tencza. “I hope students give some

As proven by the march, the State
ofsecurity on campus is an immediate
issue for the administration. Director of
Security Mike Young said last week’s
attack is the first assault of this kind
he’s seen in eight years of working here
at Washington and Lee.

“Situations like this heighten secu-
rity awareness and create a certain con-
cern and panic,” said Young.

Young said the security office has
received several calls of near panic over
the incident.

Since the assault, security officers
have spent more time on foot patrol in
the campus area.

Young and other security officials
are also planning a lighting tour with
students and administrators. The light-
ing tour is a walk through campus to
determine what spots need better light-
ing. Young pointed out that fall foliage
makes campus darker than at other times
of the year because it blocks out the
lighting already on campus. Security
and administration have been making
“steady progress” on increasing light-
ing for years now. Yet, Young said in-
creased lighting can’t replace common
sense and security awareness.

SEE ‘ATTACK’ ON PAGE 2

3 Ultra iling-tum tam

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1999

Bond speaks

NAACP Chairman
addresses freshmen

By Sara Lambert
STAFF WRITER

Noted civil right’s activist Julian
Bond brought a new message to an
overﬂow crowd at Lee Chapel last
Wednesday, calling for continued
white remediation for social, economic,
and legal inequities -incurred against
blacks throughout history.

“Affirmative action is the just spoils

of a righteous war,” said Bond, the
chaimian of the NAACP.

Bond’s speech, titled “2001: A
Race Odyssey,” acted in conjunction
with the topics discussed in this
year’s freshman reading, Coming of
Age in Mississippi, by Anne Moody.
In his speech Bond reiterated
Moody’s frustration with the deep
and seemingly irreconcilable divi-
sions between blacks and whites.
Bond equated the situation to a foot-
ball game where the white team is
ahead 145 to 3, and had been cheat-
ing the entire game. “All of a sudden
the white quarterback, who feels
badly about things that happened be-
fore he entered the game, turns to the
black team and says, ‘hey fellas can’t
we just play fair?’,” said Bond.

Though an even playing field has
always been the goal of civil rights ac-
tivists, Bond says this type of retribu-
tion ignores the problem and mairitain-
ing the racial injustices that still exist.

“But fair in that game is double-
speak for freezing the status quo in
place; permanently fixing inequality
as part of the American scene,” con-
tinued Bond. “The opponents of fair-

SEE ‘BOND’ ON PAGE 2

Sorority housesrise over skyline

By Michael Crittenden

NEWS EDITOR

To anyone walking across the foot-
bridge this fall, it’s hard to avoid notic-
ing ﬁve new buildings that appeared
out of nowhere this Summer. The build-
ings, the future site of Washington and
Lee’s sorority houses show marked
improvement from the barren construc-
tion site that students saw last May.

“The houses are right on schedule,”
said Panhellenic President Holly Shiver.
“ The houses should be completed by
next July and be livable by next August.”

Part of W&L’s strategic plan for
renovation, the project was approved
by the Board of Trustees in order to
give sorority members a place they
could live together, eat meals, and hold
chapter meetings. Currently the five so-
rorities on campus hold chapter meet-
ings in various campus buildings, and
maintain sorority suites in Gaines Hall.

“The sorority houses will finally give
us a chance to call a place our own,”
said Sorority Housing Committee mem-

I

,»

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

thought to their answers when they is THERE A FOOTBALL GAME TODAY? Scott Hudson and company
relax at the tailgate preceding Saturday"s football game.

are surveyed.”

ber Elizabeth Holleman. “Up to this
point there has been no opportunity
for many members of one sorority to
live together.”

Located adjacent to Wilson Field,
the houses are designed differently
than the fratemity houses that students
are used to. According to Holleman,
who recently toured the largely fm-
ished Chi-Omega house, the bottom
ﬂoor consists of a TV room, a house
mother’s suite, and a chapter room. The
chapter room will contain room for so-
rority meetings and an office for the
president. The second ﬂoor will be
reached by a master staircase and will
feature the dining room, a study/sun
room, and a large living room. The third
ﬂoor will serve as the living quarters,
with space for 20 women.

“The houses are going to be both
beautiful, and more importantly, very
functional for all the sororities,” said
Holleman.

While the construction continues on
the houses, the committee in charge of
the housing project still has many is-
sues to deal with before implementation
of the sorority houses is complete. The
most important include the selection pro-
cess of occupants for the 20 available
spots in each house, and changing meal
plan opportunities.

“A lot of things are still in the plan-
ning stages right now,” said Shiver.
“Each sorority will probably have a
unique way of detennining who lives
in each house, and who eats there
when.”

Though the oﬁicial University policy
for the sorority houses has yet to be
codiﬁed, according to Holleman, it will
boil down to no alcohol, and no males
on the third ﬂoor. These rules will be
enforced by the house mothers and
security. The houses will also not have
parties like their fraternity counterparts,
but will play host to receptions for spe-
cial events such like Parent’s Weekend
or Homecoming.

One of the major issues surround-
ing the new houses has been the ques-
tion of whether or not they will create
isolation and rivalry between members
of different sororities. The lack of indi-
vidual sorority housing has meant that
sorority members often live with mem-
bers of other sorority houses. Some
members have raised concerns about
the possible effects of the houses on
their current friendships. Others, how-
ever, have embraced the idea and are
looking forward to the experience.

“I think it will be a great bonding ex-
perience and will help strengthen soror-
ity identity,” said junior KD Erica Bahn.

When asked if she foresees the
houses creating rivalries and isolation
between sororities, Bahn said She
thinks relations will remain “friendly
and open.”

Panhellenic President Holly Shiver
agreed, saying it will change things, but
not for the worse.

“I think they are a really good thing
for this school. It will change the dy-
narnic of the sorority experience, but I.
think that will be a positive change.”

W&LIFE:

SPORTS:
Close, but no cigar

LAST WORD:

(J11: Tiling-tum iﬁlti
September 20, 1999

OPINION: . _
Wafﬂe House, a dining sensation

Junior Marvin concert & upcoming events

Miss America in the feminist age

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

PAGE 5

PAGE 6

 

\

.1
\

PAGE2 ‘ 9

P I @112 ﬂing-tum ﬂirts

‘ATTACK’ FROM PAGE 1

“After 32 years in this business,” said Young, “I’ve
learned you can’t make night into daylight.”

Associate Dean of Students and university psycholo-
gist Anne Schroer-Lamont says that isn’t the issue.

“We’re not asking for night to be turned into day. We
want to address the issues of better lighting, security es-
corts, and trimming back shrubbery.”

She mentioned some poorly lit spots around campus,
such as the track and the various paths to Woods Creek.
She also called for the shrubbery around the entrance to the
main part of campus from the Corral to be trimmed back or
removed.

“Ever since the first term women have been at Washing-
ton and Lee, they have complained about those bushes,”
said Schroer-Lamont. “We’re just waiting for something to
happen.”

She went on to explain that the administration has re-
fused to touch the bushes since they are an alumni gift.

Another facet of campus security called into question
aﬁer the assault are campus call boxes or “blue lights”. There
are 13 boxes across campus. Some have blue lights on the
top, others are built into a wall. Young says security rarely
receives emergency calls from the boxes. He says some
boxes have never even been used. Young insists that the
boxes won’t work unless people use them. Some adminis-
trators and students question the locale and number of boxes.

“There are not enough blue light phones on this cam-
pus,” said Dean Schroer-Lamont. She said call boxes are
more prevalent at other schools. For example, at the College
of William and Mary, one can see a call box within 20 yards
of another from any point on campus.

Student-run campus escort services are another security
measure some administrators are calling for here at Wash-
ington and Lee. These students would be available to es-
cort other students at all times. According to Dean Schroer-
Lamont, the College of William and Mary currently offers
this program staffed by work study students.

Chief Young said students need to be more aware of their
surroundings and potential problems. He advises avoiding
suspicious areas, going to places in pairs or groups, and
calling security to act as an escort whenever needed.

“There’s always safety in numbers,” said Young.

In a separate interview, Dean David Howison echoed the
need for students to exercise more caution on campus.

“A tragedy like this shakes us up,” said Howison. “Since
we live in a relatively safe community, many people. includ-
ing me, take safety for granted.”

Howison insisted that the administration is always open
to suggestions from students to make Washington and Lee
safer.

“If there are legitimate ways to improve security, the
money is less important than the end result."

He also noted that the Honor System fosters a sense of
security that can be violated. Upon arrival, he noticed many
students 1eﬁ..b.ooks and 0,ther..pQssessi0r1s. around campus.

  

Save up to 40

“Our sense of safety comes from the Honor System and
that’s the dilemma,” said Howison. “All of us feel liberated
because of the Honor System, so we might not take the
precautions we would in a different setting.”

Schroer-Lamont also discussed the implications of the
attack on the community.

“Students need to be a bit more careful about being out
in pairs,” Schroer-Lamont said. “Friends need to check on
each other, and people need to be a little more conscious
about their surroundings.” Furthermore, she suggested that
men take the lead in watching out for their female friends.

“Men do not have this night fear, and they cannot frilly
understand how it feels,” Schroer-Lamont said. “It takes a
lot of courage for someone to say, ‘Will you walk me home?,’”
Sc_hroer_-Lamont said. She suggested that if a friend doesn’t
want to walk home alone, even if you aren’t planning on
leaving the party at that point, it is a gesture of trust and
friendship to leave with that person in order to make sure
they get home safely. However, Schroer-Lamont says that
some people might read this request for company as an
invitation for something more.

“This is not an-invitation. Guys need to be particularly
careful not to read anything into [the request],” Schroer-
Lamont said. She explained that if a man uses a request for
an escort as an excuse to initiate romantic activity, the woman
may feel violated if she did not have romance in mind.

Resident assistant Daniel Sozomenu, a junior, said that
while he feels more safe than a female resident probably
does, the new information about the knife makes the inci-
dent more frightening to everyone. He said some of his
residents expressed concern after information came out about
the attack.

“Most people are handling the situation well. It was an
isolated in ident. Now it’s become something more of a
curiosity or of intrigue. There’s no panic.”

Sophomore Aubrie Mann, who participated in the Cam-
pus Safety Walk, disagreed.

“I don’t feel safe at all at night,” Mann said. “[The as-
sault] has completely changed my perspective. I will not go
to the library and that used to be my place to study. I won’t
leave my apartment at night unless someone is picking me
up or I’m with a large group offriends.”

Mann, a resident of Woods Creek Apartments, said,
“There is no good way to get home.” The library path to
Woods Creek is not paved and not well lit, Mann said, and
there are no call boxes. Mann went on to describe another
pathway to Woods Creek, which runs underneath the foot-
bridge. There are no lights and the path has a ravine on one
side of it.

“Probably the safest way [to Woods Creek] is to take the
footbridge to the law school,” Mann said, “but even once
you’ve reached the playing fields, it’s not well lit. One of the
lights on the way has burned out.” Mann said that while the
campus itself is aesthetically pretty, the curving pathsand
trees which are so pleasing to the eye in the day create

places to hide at night.

“You can’t see and you can’t be fully aware ofyour sur-
roundings all of the time [because of the campus design],”
Mann said.

When asked how the attack affected campus attitude,
Mann said it seems that people are more afraid.

“It has kind of inhibited the speaking tradition, by put-
ting up a barrier,” Mann said. “People aren’t as friendly, and
seem a bit shaken by the incident.”

Sozomenu agreed that campus security could be in-
creased.

“I know call boxes are expensive but I think there needs
to be more call boxes, perhaps on both sides of Woods
Creek and also on the back side of the library,” Sozomenu
said. “The idea of a campus escort service is a great idea.
On larger campuses, it’s standard.”

No matter what measures security or the administration
take, the safety of students is not something that can be
guaranteed.

“We can’t ever ensure safety, although we can make the
campus as safe as possible,” Dean Schroer-Lamont said.
Mann said that while she thinks the campus will feel more
safe once the attacker is caught, she doesn’t think the inci-
dent will be completely forgotten.

“The attitude of the campus won’t go back to the same
level. Now people are watching out for themselves and
each other a lot more. I don’t think it will go back to the
same secure feeling at night. Our little W&L bubble burst.”

 

‘BOND’ FROM PAGE 1

ness speak evil while refusing to see it or hear it. They’re
now promoting a racial version of ‘don’t ask, don’t tell’
they want us to become invisible in silence.”

Bond also spoke about the birth of the Civil Rights
movement and the events that he witnessed and took part
in.

“Less than ten years after [the Civil War] ended, the
nation sided with the losers and agreed to continue black
subjugation for almost a hundred years,” stated the activ-
ist. “We’re asked to believe that no permanent damage
was done to the oppressors or the oppressed.”

Dr. Bond’s speech and the ensuing question and an-
swer period provoked a mixed reaction from Washington
and Lee students, although most agreed he was an effec-
tive speaker.

“I thought he was a very good speaker,” said freshman
Emma Thomas. “The way he related to the audience was
good.”

Thompson’s classmate Karl Kuersteiner agreed, say-
ing the speech “gave an interesting twist to the notion of
racism.”

“I think it shows a lot ofguts. I am sure he didn’t come
in here thinking there would be a lot of NAACP fans,”
added Kuersteiner.

  

SEPTEMBER 20, 1999

E-mail General Notes to 2-.
’phi@wlu.‘edu I"

W&L receives $1 1 .9 million gift

Washington and Lee University has received a bequest .
worth $1 1.9 million from the estate of Mr. & Mrs. J. Edward '
Lewis. The gift, which will be used for scholarship support
for students from West Virginia, is the second-largest one-
time gift in W&L history.

“We are profoundly grateﬁil to Mr. and Mrs. Lewis for).
this marvelously generous gift to the University’s scholar-
ship endowment,” W&L president John Elrod said.

Mr. Lewis, a native of Oak Hill, W. Va., graduated from
W&L in 1929 and went on to a successful banking career.
He passed away in 1971. His wife, Elizabeth, passed away
on June I, 1999. She was a graduate of Marshall University
where the school’s college of business is named in her honor.

Following her husband’s death, Mrs. Lewis generously
supported the J. Edward Lewis Scholarship Fund on an:
annual basis, helping a number of West Virginia students‘
attend W&L. The recent bequest will be used to endow
that fund.

Nominations for Who’s Who

Anyone who wishes to nominate a member of the cur-
rent undergraduate senior class for selection to Who ’s Who
Among Students in American Universities and Colleges
may do so by submitting the name and qualifications of l“
that student to David Howison, Dean of Students, in Payne
Hall 9 by October 1, I999.

Criteria for Who ’s Who include 1) scholarship, 2) partici-
pation and leadership in academic and extracurricular ac—}
tivities, 3) citizenship and service to Washington and Lee,
and 4) potential for future achievement.

“Touch of Evil” to show at Troubadour J‘

Washington and Lee University’s Film Society will show
“Touch of Evil” (USA, 1958), directed by Orson Welles Sep-
tember 24 and 25 in the Troubadour Theater on Henry
Street. The ﬁlm will be shown at 8 p.m., which is a change p-
from the normal 7:30 p.m. viewing. There will be no charge
for admission, although contributions are very welcome.

This re-release of Welles’ 1958 masterpiece of ﬁlm noir
is considered the “director’s cut” — more closely resem-
bling the f1lmmaker’s original intentions. Adapted by Welles ‘
from a pulp novel called “Badge of Evil,” the ﬁlm tells a
sordid story of murder, corruption, and intrigue along the
Mexican border. The cast is a marvel in itself, including
Charlton Heston, Janet Leigh, Marlene Dietrich and Welles I
himself. Already a cult classic, the reappearance of “Touch
of Evil” is ensuring its place as one ofthe masterpieces of
American cinema. ' ‘ '

 

Your Online College Bookstore

% on new textbooks.

Get them in 1-3 business days. Guaranteed:

JAE-.l.!?S G. I.E‘r"9t_I.'—=..\ .=_:.'-2:...-*.._,-,.-:

vv.'\el-+m<.3ro==r a. LEE UNNEFISITY

LEXINGT ON, VA 24450

00

*Books delivered in no more than three business days or your shipping is refunded. Some restrictions apply. See www.varsitybooks.com for details.

L

   

 

I

  
 

  

PAGE 3

he Itiing-tum lﬂlri

PINION

Loyal customer extolls virtues
of “scattered, smothered...”

I was a little disappointed with last week’s quote of the
week. I don’t care what anybody says, Wafﬂe House is a
great place. You can go any time, day or night and enjoy
quality food and service. Perhaps the best way to capture
my love of Wafﬂe House is to explain where it all began.

I had my ﬁrst Waﬁle House experience about six years
ago. I was in Atlanta with my family and for some reason,
we decided to stop at one of the hundreds of Wafﬂe Houses
down south. From that day on, my
loyalties deﬁnitely were with Wafﬂe
House. Where else can you get
wafﬂes, hashbrowns, T-bone steaks,
and fast and friendly service? I can’t
really say what it is that draws me to
Wafﬂe House, but it deﬁnitely is
something. Words cannot do justice to the feeling that I
got when I saw the Wafﬂe House sign in Lexington. My
mom sent me an article last year telling about the chance of
Wafﬂe House coming to Lexington. At the time there was
a large dispute about the Wafﬂe House sign, but thar1k-
fully any and all problems were worked out.

One of my most memorable visits -to a Wafﬂe House
was in Smithﬁeld, NC. I was with my mom and sister. We
had ordered and were in the middle of eating our wafﬂes
when my mom read on e of their many signs. “No personal

'checks accepted.” My mom looked around nervously and

quietly told my sister and me that she had no cash, only

- her checkbook. We were scared that we were going to

have to do the dishes to pay for our food. My mom called
Cecil Rook over, a Wafﬂe House chef that will never be
forgotten, and told him that we had no money. She asked

A’ Rook if she could write him a check and he could pay

LETTERS TO

Ultimate frisbee team needs
and deserves practice ﬁeld

Dear Editor,

I’m a senior here and have been working on an ulti-
mate frisbee team at Washington and Lee for three years.
Most folks just don’t think of ultimate as a major sport. I
assure you it is. It will be a medal sport in the 2001 World
Games.

While I’ve been putting a team together for three
years, we’ve played other colleges, and even won a few
times. But this year they took away our ﬁeld. We’ve got
no place to play or practice. They gave it to the ﬁeld
hockey team since they are trying to become a varsity

' sport. I talked to Coach Lyles, but he’s already having
trouble trying to ﬁt all the club sports, law sports, and
IMs on two ﬁelds. I understand (I think) the massive
paperwork needed for club sports. Yet all these years we
always tried to be good guys; always sharing the ﬁeld if
I saw club lacrosse, ﬁeld hockey, softball, rugby or law
sports needing some space. Hell, we even shared it with
the wrestling team.

We understood there was limited space and we just
had to share. And yet here we are, the ones who get
screwed. We can try to move the game to the Colonnade
, but that grass won’t last long, and besides, a lot of
students just like to relax there and enjoy the day. Hey -
I’ve even tried to get VMI to give me some space. There’s
got to be some way, especially with the addition of the

 

Louie Blue
Carly Blake1ock"01

 

Wafﬂe House, but unfortunately he couldn’t help us. In_—
stead, Cecil told us to finish our food and leave. He said
that he would just trust us to come back to Wafﬂe House
and pay him then. My mom told him that we were just
passing through and wouldn’t be back to that part of the
state for weeks. He said that we could take as long as we
wanted. He knew that we would be back. My mom never
forgot Cecil and sure enough a few weeks later we stopped
by and paid our bill and left a little
something extra for Cecil. Now that’ s
something that doesn’t happen ev-
eryday.

Wafﬂe House not only ranks high
on my list because of its food, but also
because of its versatility. You can play
“Wafﬂe House” songs on the jukebox, ﬁnd Wafﬂe House
t-shirts all over town, or try the newest prepared way to eat
them hashbrowns. My roommate found a nice Wafﬂe
House t-shirt with the quote, “Eat my grits...and eggs...and
wafﬂes...and chicken” that I will wear with pride. Some-
times you can even be blessed enough to be given one of
those charming paper hats or borrow one of the Wafﬂe
House employees’ bandana head pieces. Wafﬂe House is
a place to grab a quick bite to cat by ordering in the
hashbrown lingo, “scattered, smothered and covered”, a
place to socialize with friends, or enjoy a lovely view of
Lexington.

So, please, if you haven’t visited the Wafﬂe House in
Lexington, make it a point to do it this weekend. Go any-
time, they’re always open. Have a waffle, some hashbrowns,
the best coffee in America. Just try it once, and I’m sure
you’ll go back for more!

THE EDITOR

new baseball stadium, that ﬁeld space can be found. I walk
around the ﬁelds and I often see some empty - but unus-
able to non-varsity sports. I’m not going to say something
cheesy, like it’s not in accord with Washington and Lee
ethics, it’s just tough sh**. But that doesn’t mean we
have to take it sitting down. I ask students and the admin-
istration to see if those ﬁelds may be used more efﬁciently.
Thanks,
Andrew Hartnagel ’00

Freshman dissatisﬁed with
political “lecture”

Dear Editor,

When I read about the address to the freshman class
by Mr. Julian Bond (entitled “2000: A Race Odyssey”), I
expected a thought-provoking analysis of the current state
of race relations in America. What I got instead was a
superﬁcial, politically motivated tirade that was long on
assertions but short on real analysis. The only two themes
I was able to decipher were “Afﬁrmative Action is good”
and “Republicans are bad.” He provided nothing but an-
ecdotal evidence for the necessity and effectiveness of
Afﬁrmative Action. He also implied that anyone who
wanted to end Afﬁnnative Action must be a dangerous
racist.

When Dean Dalhouse made the introduction, he in-

SEPTEMBER 20, 1999

 

formed us that Mr. Bond was a member of the Georgia
legislature and a professor at UVA. What we heard was
too much of the politician and not enough of the intellec-
tual. That same talk could just as easily have come from
the mouth of Jesse Jackson or Bill Clinton.

The freshman orientation handbook described the ad-
dress as a “lecture.” It was only a lecture in the sense that
a parent might “lecture” his child,'ending with “Because I
told you so.”

Will Martin ’03

Dalhouse responsible for
freshman service project

Dear Editor,

We wish to correct an inaccuracy in the sub-title of
Sara Lambert’s informative and excellent story in last
week’s Ring-tum Phi. Although students from the Shep-
herd Poverty Program assisted Dean Mark Dalhouse in
planning and executing the program, the pre-orientation
week was initiated and planned by Dean Dalhouse. We
applauded Dean Dalhouse’s efforts and supported him in
small ways, but the Shepherd Program did not fund, plan,
nor manage this excellent program for freshmen. We are
grateful to Dean Dalhouse, to Sara Lambert, and to the
Phi for the event and the prominent story. We hope this
will be the ﬁrst year in a tradition for new freshmen at
Washington and Lee. -

Harlan Beckley

Director, Shepherd Poverty Program

Lucy Baldwin

Volunteer Coordinatory, Shepherd Poverty Program

Women’s forum urges admin-
istration to reaccess safety

Dear Editor,

A female student was attacked outside of Leybum
Library on Sunday September 12, I am sure that we all
heard this “news”. But did we really listen?

This incident should be a clear signal to every mem-
ber of this campus that Washington and Lee is not the
bubble world we often make it out to be. Crime and sexual
assault have been very real issues on campus since co-
education in 1985. Unfortunately, only physical manifes-
tations as these force us to face and discuss these often
silenced issues.

As co-chair of Women’s Forum, I ﬁnd it particularly
alarming that we lack several basic characteristics of a
safe campus, such as adequate lighting and convenient
security phone system.

Students in both Woods Creek Apartments and the
law school have sent us concerns about these problems.
While these concerns are not new, hopefully they will
now be addressed.

In response to the attack, Women’s Forum held a walk
around campus last night. We carried a petition request-
ing increased lighting and security phones in several
dangerous areas across campus. We strongly hope to
see prompt administrative action regarding these con-
cems.

Sincerely,

Nancy L. Reinhart

Co-chair Women’s Forum

Clip: Zﬂing-tum iﬂhi

Executive Editor
Associate Editor
News Editor
Opinions Editor
W&Life Editors

Polly Doig
Hollister Hovey
Michael Crittenden
Stephanie Bianco
Ginger Phillips
Elianna Marziani
Frances Groberg
Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin

Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Last Word Editor

Copy Editor Heather McDonald
Photo Editor Emily Barnes
Assistant Photo Editor Lisa Lin

Online Editor Ali Soydan

Layout Editor Neal Willetts
Circulation Director Leo Brown

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wIu.edu
htrp://wlu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

Player to students: Two halves to football

Coming out of the locker room at halftime of Saturday’s
football game reminded me of why its so hard to be an athlete
at Washington and Lee. Down only twelve points to Guilford,
we came out for the second half looking to improve on our ﬁrst
half mistakes and win our home opener. Pumped and ready to

go, we ran

. ,_ —"""""—"‘—"“"“ out _ onto
   Bad<porch Baldendash Wilson to
 ,1 I. . . , once again
W . Michael Cnttenden 01 ﬁndthatour
“loyal” fans

had abandoned us to take their afternoon naps, or to injure
themselves on the beer slide.

Thanks again, your support is very much appreciated (note
the dripping sarcasm).To those of us who spend 20 hours a
week at practice, watching video, and getting prepared to lay it
out on the ﬁeld on Saturdays, it’s a morale killer to discover
that your peers have deserted you for a few cocktails. I will
take this chance to thank the loyal groups of fans who do stay
for every game and cheer loudly during the games.

Your support is more than encouraged and is something
that is truly valuable to the guys on the ﬁeld. I know it means
a lot to the guys on the team when you hear someone yell
your name (thanks Adam). Support and respect of your class-
mates is something that a majority of the students at this
school need a little lesson in. It is bad enough that administra-
tion seems to not be concerned with athletes in scheduling
big events (as evidinced by the scheduling of the
Bicinquenquagenary Ball last year on a weekend when the
football team was playing an away game. Arrving home too
late to attend, the players were unable to join in the revelry of
their classmates), but when you combine that with a lack of
student support it deﬂates the morale of student athletes.
Though never able to attend, I understand perfectly the de-
sire to tailgate and get a little buzz going before the game.

I have no concept of the reasoning behind the student
body’s desire to leave early. To those of you who did leave
early, I suggest that next time you may want to stay for a
whole game. If you missed the end of the game Saturday
(which we lost FYI), you missed a great second half by your

team, and a narrow last-minute defeat. You are probably the
same fans who missed the last-second, game winning ﬁeld
goal against Sewanee last year during Parent’s Weekend. So
check it out and support your fellow student athletes, who
spend innumerable amounts of time and effort outside of their
academic and social lives to do something they enjoy.

,.....

   
 

 

fuote of the Week:

(( a
That naked girl at Chi

Psi only added to the

sketchiness of late night
—Anonymous junior guy }}

 

“I was disappointed. I expected to
see things ﬂying around.”
-Tyler Green "03

“It was the driest hurricane I’ve
ever seen.”

-Allison Shank ’03

“The journalistic community sensational-
izes EVERYTHlNG—Hurricane Floyd was
another let-down.”

-Will Teichman ’03

“Floyd was an appropriate name for
it. It’sjust like ‘Emily’-such a dud.”
-Mary Fonnan ’03

 

PAGE 4

SEPTEMBER 20, 1999

' there are three basic reasons

By Ginger Phillips

F EA TURES EDITOR

As the new millennium draws
near the use of technology is be-

comin increasin l revalent in
8

our society. Each day new techno-

"logical advancements are made in

TMC opens doors of technology

said, “and I’m really excited to be
working in the most sophisticated
facility on campus. I think it’s great
that We’ve expanded our services
and abilities this year to include not
only foreign languages but the en-
tire school.”

Class use ofthe old facility had in-

Not just a roommate

class usage of the Center. The
TMC also now has its own media
server called “Helga.”

“I don’t think that one will dis-
pute the fact that the process of digi-
tization in the media industry has
brought about a whole new era of
possibilities and ease in the opera-

order to make our daily tasks
more convenient and efficient.

Universities across the nation
have also realized the essential
need for the use of technology
in the classroom.

Proof of this trend can be seen
here at Washington and Lee Uni-
versity in the form of the newly
renovated Tucker Multimedia
Center for the Humanities.

_ Upperclassmen and faculty
may remember the Center’ s much
smaller predecessor, the Tucker
Multimedia Center for Foreign
Languages, which became un-
able to meet the rising technologi-
cal needs of both students and
faculty.

“I guess you can say that

for the renovations: the qual-
ity of equipment available to-
day, the need for more faculty
and staff professional develop-
ment and an atmosphere condu-
cive to learning that would bring
forth the best in our students
and teachers,” Dr. Dick
Kuettner, Director ofthe Tucker
Multimedia Center, said. “Thus
the purpose of the proposal and
the vision behind it.”

The TMC now serves not only
the language departments but all de-
partments considered part of the
humanities curriculum, and it wel-
comes any department within the
W&L community.

“This is my first year as a TMC
assistant,” junior Deena Johnson

 

creased fourfold, a growth which far
exceeded the Center’ s capacity. Often
students had to be turned away and
classes were unable to meet in the
TMC due to lack of physical space
and equipment.

The recent renovations have not
only significantly increased the
facility’s holding capacity but the
number of computers and quality of
technological equipment.

The Center is completely digitized,
allowing for higher quality audio and
video programs for the use of students
and easier access to such software.

  

Photo courtesy of P.R. Kuettner

The comfortable, quiet atmosphere of the TMC and its variety
of high-tech computer, audio and visual equipment provide a
wonderful learning oppurtunity for both students and faculty.

tion of the ever increasing number
of resources in our technological so-
ciety,” Kuettner said.

“Equipping the university for the
future is, or course, our ultimate
goal,” Kuettner said. “I hope we will
be proud to enter the next millen-
nium with what the TMC has to of-
fer, and we at the TMC look forward
to working with the entire commu-
nity in bringing about a spirit of.
unity with technology and its wise
use at the very core.”

Many W&L students have also been
extremely impressed by the new Center.

Two more teaching areas have

been added to facilitate multiple

“I knew that W&L had a strong

Romance Language Department be-

fore I came here, but when I saw
the facilities here, I was simply
blown away,” freshman Nick
Ramsey said. “I talked to some of
my friends at other universities
and they couldn’t believe that we
have something so high-tech as
the TMC.”

Kuettner will also be imple-
menting a vigorous program di-
rected at faculty and student
training and development in the
technological ﬁeld.

Technology changes daily
and therefore such training is
viewed as an on-going process
by the TMC staff.

“Technology is here to stay
and we must make ourselves lit-

erate as to its utilization,”
Kuettner said.

“And I don’t mean just tum-
ing on the switch and going for
a ride. We all need to make the
most of our resources, taking ﬁill
advantage of our knowledge
and talents.”

The new TMC was con-
structed under Kuettner’s direc-
tion and using funds provided
by the University and an edu-
cational grant in excess of
$300,000 supplied by the Charles
E. Culpepper Foundation.

A website, www.tmc.wlu.edu,
has been created to provide more
information regarding the objec-
tives and policies ofthe TMC.

“Technology should not be used
just for the sake of technology, but
for the sake of those using it,” wrote
Kuettner in his original proposal to
the Foundation.

The beneﬁt of having such tech-
nology available for student and
faculty use in the Tucker Multirne—
dia Center should prove to be in-
valuable to the Washington and Lee
community.

“Junior Marvin revives legend

By Sonia Hall

STA FF WRITER

In less than a week, Bob

3 Marley’s legendary guitarist and
 vocalist, Junior Marvin, will have
2 his audience rocking to his eclectic
 sounds in the Student Pavilion as
, he “carries on the legend.”

The W&L community, as well as

 others lucky enough to be in-
1 formed, will be treated to a fresh mix
 of reggae, Latin music and other
; contemporary vibes as the band
7 makes its first U.S. stop on their

Z three-month-old world

tour,

i “Burnin’ Love into the Millenium.”

The concert, graced with talents
from all over the world, will feature
Brazilian guest band Djambi. The
entourage also includes artists
from Canada, England, the USA
and, of course, the Caribbean.

The first leg of their tour took
Junior Marvin and Friends through
Europe with a crowd of over 6,000
at a Belgian concert, three sold-out
concerts in Switzerland and simi-
lar results in Germany. The ex-
Whaler continues to prove that
reggae, and particularly the clas-
sic lyrics ofthe Honorable Robert
Nesta Marley, hold a universal
message.

Army might pay it off.

for each year of service,
whichever is greater.

You’ll also have training
in a choice of skills and
‘enough self—assurance

to last you the rest of
your life.

Get all the details
from your Army
Recruiter.

 

WE’ LL ERASE YOUR
COLLEGE LOAN.

If you’re stuck with a (federally insured)
student loan that’s not in default, the

If you qualify, we’ll reduce your
debt—up to $65,000. Payment is
either 1/3 of the debt or $1,500

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 

The idea of the event, which
originated with past International
Club president Bill Overbaugh ’99,
soon grabbed the enthusiasm of
multiple other campus organiza-
tions this summer.

By August, the Office of Inter-
national Education, PRIDE, and the
Student Activities Board had all
joined with the International Club
to bring this little piece of Jamaica
to Lexington.

“I think it’s really refreshing,”
PRIDE Secretary Gabby Best said.
“It’s different from the usual fra-
ternity party, the usual band. . . I
think this concert represents a real
step towards promoting diversity
on campus.”

The planning of this event has
indeed been a unifying endeavor
for many people. Friday night
should present an even more re-
freshing atmosphere as students
and friends of the W&L commu-
nity enjoy the common language
of music. ‘

Tickets cost $10 each for the
W&L community, and will be on
sale each day this week in front of
the Co-op from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m.

Ell

  Upcoming     

 

By Eliarma Marziani
F EA TURES EDITOR

Roommates hacking each other’s
hair off, kicking each other out for op-
posite-sex company, blaring their tacky
music. . . everyone has heard the hor-
ror stories.

Rooming with someone, however,
does not necessarily mean a trip to buy
earplugs, buying life insurance, or fmd-
ing another place to crash should the
need arise.

Living together can bring people
together. Roommates can become life-
long friends.

Several sophomore women have
found that some of the first people they
met here at Washington and Lee Uni-
versity have remained their best friends.

Mandy Cannon and Veronica
Grifﬁth are two sophomore roommates
who live with three of their best friends
in a suite in Gaines.

Grifﬁth automatically clicked with
virtually all the women on her fresh-
man hall last year and eight of those 13
are currently living on the same hall
again as sophomores in Gaines.

“When we first met on the hall, little
did we know we would become long-
time friends and live together our
sophomore year,” Griffith said. “We in-
stantly formed bonds that would last
forever.”

These “Gilliam girls” went to par-
ties, played dress up, threw birthday
and Christmas parties and took road
trips together as freshmen.

Now that they are sophomores in
Gaines, things are not much different.

“We have nights when we just get
together in someone’s room and talk
until 6:30 a.m.,” Cannon said.

She and Griffith described how all
of their suite mates had determined to
have each other as bridesmaids at their
weddings. Cannon described the
women as “very close, lifelong friends.”

Griﬁith explained that the close-knit
friendship the women share came from

living together, spending so much time
together and knowing so much about
each other.

“We talk about relationships, our
friends, things we worry about, dreams,
everything,” she said.

The women plan to live with each
other for the remainder of their time at
W&L. They do not see this as limiting,
however, because they love going out
and meeting new people together. They
believe that they are each other’s core
group of friends and that they will al-
ways be there for one another.

Perhaps most impressive is the story
of four senior women who lived in the
same Gilliam hall their freshman year.
,They remain the greatest of friends and
two of the women still live together. ,

Kelley Gilbert, Sula Jacobs, Emily

Schulz, and Kelly Scott met each other
as freshman hallmates.

“We spent a lot of time just hanging
out in the hall,” Gilbert said, talking
about the little lounge they made out
of a nook in the hall. “We’d go out to
parties together, to Roanoke, to mov-
ies and to eat together. We also did
Spring Break together.”

The girls grew very close during
their time together as hallmates and
they decided to get a suite together
their sophomore year in Gaines.

“Almost our entire hall stuck to-
gether,” Gilbert said. Their junior and
senior years, Schulz and Jacobs split
off to become RAs and Dorm Counse-
lors, but they still spent a lot of time as
a foursome. ,

As seniors Gilbert and Scott still live
together. All the girls still make an ef-
fort to spend a lot of time together.

“They’re the people that know you
the best. . . We’ve never had a problem
we couldn’t get past,” Gilbert said. “I’d
definitely say we’re lifelong friends.”

So when you are feeling lonely,
cheer up. It is possible that your roomie
will someday evolve into more than just
an answering service — perhaps into
someone you can call a real friend.

 

(note by nu y Bames/Photo Editor

BACKSTAGE: comedy group Second City Friday night, after their Lenfest Center performance.

 
  
 
  
 

 

 

FjiIin,.socie¢y.‘frouchorEvi1”(UsA, 1953), g
 by_Orson Weiies. Troubadorcinema. I ,__i

’ ‘ 0‘ ages“. :....:;.. Marvin I,-‘Bob Ma.rley’s legendary guilii
tarist and vocalist. W&L Student Pavilion. . 

“topical-§Party,  Chi. Band: “Super Star.”

 

  

540-886-2651

ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE?

www.goarmy.com

Tuesday, September 21  if

   

 

  ‘sotutidayﬁéeptember 25
I pg 9:00 am.’ Tennis (M). W&L Tennis Classic. Varsity
-  ‘ : Courts. (W&L, Averett, College of New

8:45 a.m. Golf. W&L Fall Classic. Lexington Gcrrailcounuy cm:

Alpha Epsilon Delta Health Professions Seminar. “Medical » V A

  
  

A 5:00 p.m. A A ‘  .I.ersey,v1v1r) -
— School Admissions,” Dr.‘ Donald W. Lewis, associate dean , . ' 9 A ' . — ‘ * A '
for admissions, Eastern Virginia Medical School. Room A214, Football. Hall of Fame Game. W&L vs. Centre 9
Science Center. , .. L College. Wilson Field. A ' "
38:00 p.m. Faculty Recital. Jerry Myergjbaritone,  Gaylard,7 =5,“ l 7  Band  3 “A1111? B’S Rtweilge-” Fiji. 5  I A

piano. Lenfest Center.

0. Septemberjzo ,. 

_ V .}Tennis.(M). W&LTennis Classic, Day2.Varsity;'
 . ‘Courts. (W&L, Averett, College ofNew
Jersey,VMI)

Wednesday, $eptembér»24ii  V
‘ ~8:00?p.m. s FijipartyatCabixi5;V2.$A‘ 

9:30 pm. . DJ Party, Phi Psi.

...._._..

PAGE 5

SEORTS

 

SEPTEMBER 20, 1999?

Women’s soccershows us the money (and the scoreboard) '9?

By Frances Groberg

SPOR TS EDITOR

You’d thunk it was a different team out there.

Despite losing its ﬁrst game of the season to Emory, the
Washington and Lee women’s soccer team has come back
strong, winning their last four games and outscoring their
opponents 21-2.

The Generals added three of the four to the win column
this week, defeating the Randolph Macon Women’s Col-
lege, Virginia Wesleyan, and Hollins. W&L’s record now

stands at 4-1, 3-0 ODAC.

The Generals dominated RMWC 4-1 on Sunday, stay-
ing on attack for most of the game. The Generals scored
ﬁrst, in the ﬁrst two minutes of the game, when freshman
Ruth-Hill Yielding intercepted a goal kick and chipped the
ball into the goal. Other goals were scored by junior cap-
tain Shana Levine, freshman Jenny Thomas, and sopho-
more Kate Bidwell.

The Generals outshot the Wildcats by an overwhelm-
ing 35-1 en route to the victory.

“We’re right on track for the second full week of our

season,” head coach Jan Hathom said. “We’re in better
shape, we’re learning each other’s game styles, and gain-
ing conﬁdence. The game is the best teacher.”

Saturday’s game against Virginia Wesleyan stayed very
even through the ﬁrst half. Both teams had some good
Scoring chances, but neither team could ﬁnish the job.

“I think we were overly excited, and just peaked too
early,” Hathom said. “It took the first half to ﬁgure out
how to get in the offensive mode.” v

Get into it they did. The Generals came out strong after
the break, going up 2-0 within the ﬁrst ﬁve minutes of the

half from two goals scored by junior Liz Olson and Levine}
W&L outshot the Blue Marlins 14-6. Senior goal’ l
Stephanie McKnight recorded the shutout. l

The Generals also defeated Hollins on Thursday by thei
overwhelming score of 8- 1. 

“You’re not going to go wrong with 16 returning playl_
ers, most of whom are in the sophomore and junior classes]!
Hathom surmised. “lt’s all there for the taking.” 

W&L has three more games this week, including Eastern’
Mennoiiite on Wednesday, NC Wesleyan on Saturday, and
Methodist on Sunday. All three contests are on the road. A

I
I
H
I
I
1

By Steele Cooper

SPORTS EDITOR

This time the win and the great comeback were in
their hands.

The W&L football team fell to Guilford on Saturday
by only 22-20. Trailing by ﬁve with 4:1 1 leﬁ in the game
junior tailback Marc Watson scored on a 19-yard run to
put the Generals up 20-19.

The failed two-point conversion gave the Quak-
ers the one last breath they needed. They took ad-
vantage of the opportunity by putting together an

1 1-play, 67-yard drive that ended with the game win-
ning field goal.

Guilford was first on the scoreboard with a two-yard
run from their freshman quarterback. The Quakers also
failed to score on the two point conversion.

With 1:07 left in the quarter Guilford repeated the
two-yard quarterback run to 12-0. Once again, the two-
point conversion failed.

“The ﬁrst half was the worst that the offense has
ever played,” said Watson. “We weren’t on the same
page at all.”

The second half brought out a more poised and col-
lected W&L team. They kicked off their comeback in
the third quarter when senior quarterback Christian
Batcheller found freshman tight end Davis White in the
end zone for the 23-yard score.

Guilford got in close again and scored on the one-
yard run. The Generals would answer back with an-
other hit from Batcheller. The score then remained 19-
14 until Watson scored on the run to put the Generals

21 seconds too many

up.
Watson led the offense for W&L on Saturday with
1 14 rushing yards on 26 carries. He caught three passes
for 24 yards and scored two touch downs. Watson also
tallied 64 yards on kickoff returns to end up with 202 all-
purpose yards on the day.

Batcheller completed 9 passes of his 20 attempts for
129 yards and two touchdowns.

Defensively, the Generals were led by junior linebacker
Jayson Lipsey with 14 tackles and a fumble recovery. The
defense as a whole played a stellar four quarters. W&L
caused four turnovers, two of which came in the Gener-
als’ red zone.

“The defense gave us so many opportunities that we
didn’t capitalize on until the second half,” said Watson.

Another factor working the Generals’ favor was the
performance of their offensive line. Still without start-
ing center Matt Seals for most of the game, the offen-
sive line of junior John Sensing, junior Colin Fitzgibbons,
sophomore Mike Hodge, and senior Warren Hedges
along with senior fullback Scott Moses paved the way
for the improvement in the offensive performance in the
second half.

Even though the ﬁnal score ended in the Quakers’
favor, the Generals are only looking ahead. W&L was
able to greatly improve play in the second half and the
defense was strong throughout the game.

“We’re putting these ﬁrst two losses behind us,” said
Watson, “because if you don’t, it’ 11 ruin your whole sea-
son. If we can stay consistent, there’s no reason we can’t
be 8-2 this season.”

The Generals face Centre College next Saturday at 1:00
at home.

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
Down and out: Junior Marc Watson stumbles to the ground on Saturday against Guilford. . _

 Volleyball sweepin’ up ODAC

4

By Steele Cooper

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee volleyball team started up
yet another run on ODAC competition with wins over
Hollins (15-7, 15-5, 15-8) and Lynchburg (15-13, 15-15-8,
15-9) this week.

Saturday, the Generals were led by sophomre middle
blocker Lindsay Ruckert with 14 kills, 14 digs, and three
aces. Junior Katherine Kline led the band of W&L setters
with 16 assists and sophomore Lizzy Swan tallied 14.

This win brings the Generals to a record of 5-1 (2-0
ODAC) and extends their ODAC winning streak to 15 dat-
ing back to the 1997 season.

W&L faced Lynchburg on Wednesday in a match that
was predicted to be their toughest in the conference. It
was an easy test to pass.

Senior Nancy Reinhart paced the Generals with 12 kills
and 16 digs. Lindsay Ruckert also scored 12 kills and had
11 digs on the match. Katherine Kline once again led the
setters with 19 assists.

“Lynchburg deﬁnitely came out strong,” said Ruckert.
“After the loss to Catholic in the ﬁnals of the Invitational
we needed to get our game back together.”

The Generals did just that by spending the preceding
days in practices speciﬁcally targeted at preparing them
for Lynchburg. “We familiarized ourselves with their de-
fense. Against them we knew to aim for the deep left cor-
ner and right at their setter.”

The Generals are still experimenting with their line up and
have not yet committed to any one group of starting six.

“We’re shifting the line ups around from day to day.
The Maryville tournament this weekend will be a good test
to see what we’re gonna go with,” said Kline.

W&L is not having a problem with the changing line-
ups. The team is looking focused on racking up the wins.

“It really doesn’t matter what we go with right now. We
can run the different offences because our setters are so
good,” said Ruckert.

The Generals look to extend their ODAC winning streak
and solidify their number one spot on Wednesday when
they travel to Bridgewater.

’Jackets sting
men’s soccer

X-Country
ﬁnishes first

By Robert Turner

STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s soccer team lost its
ODAC opener 3-1 to Randolph Macon in a rough game
Sunday afternoon.

The Generals did get on the board first, taking a 1-0 lead
on sophomore Paul Wallace’s unassisted goal early in the
ﬁrst half Randolph Macon took control from this point on,
scoring goals in the 40th, 53rd, and 58th minutes.

The Generals had many chances to keep the game close,
but the team could not score again. Four W&L shots de-
ﬂected off of the goal posts without ﬁnding the net, and
many other shots were also close to ﬁnding their mark.
The Generals’ best chance came a few minutes after
Wallace’s goal, when sophomore Andrew Grimes hit a shot
that appeared to go in, but which the linesman ruled did
not cross the goal line.

The week was not all bad for the Generals, as they shut
out Southern Virginia college on Monday behind goals
from senior Jamie Parker, Wallace, and Grimes. W&L outshot
their opponents 24-4 and controlled possession virtually
the entire match.

“We have not played our best yet, but we should get a

‘’ lot better once everyone gets healthy,” senior Andrew

LeToumeau said.
The Generals face VMI at 4:30 at home on Wednesday.

By Frances Groberg

SPOR Ts EDITOR

The Washington and Lee cross country teams
brought home meet championships from Greensboro,
North Carolina this weekend.

The women’s team swept their meet with a perfect score
of 15, and the men’s team compiled a total of 20 points.

In a show of the team’s dominance, the Generals
ﬁnished in the top six spots in the women’s division.

Freshman Brooke Duncan led the way, taking home
the individual women’s championship with her time of
20:32. Junior Kathleen Moroney and senior Ashley
Davis took second and third with their times of 20:58
and 21 :38, respectively.

“We all felt really strong,” Davis said. “It was a fun
course, and we really pushed each other.”

The men’s team had a very strong showing as well.
Sophomore Ken Jackman took second on the men’s
side with a time of 28:29, followed by sophomore Rob
Naftel at 28:41 in the third spot. Senior Frank Steams
took fourth with his time of30:03.

Contributing to the teams’ wins was the fact that
this meet included fewer teams, ten instead of the usual
20-25 that usually compete.

The teams travel to the F rostburg State Invitational

on October 2.

    

“My body is Y2K compatible.
How about yours?”

STUDENT SPECIAL

0122 e ya
91°/12 ess
G e12/er

IN FULL

$199 PA

_ OR -
$29 PER MONT:
FOR A FULL SCHOOL YEAR!

0 AIR CONDITIONED FACILITIES

o 30 AEROBICS CLASSES PER WEEK o OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 0 

BODY MASTERS EQUIPMENT o HAMMER STRENGTH EQUIP- 3

MENT o 22 PIECES OF CARDIOVASCULAR EQUIPMENT 0 PRO
SHOP o TANNING SPECIALS o LOCKERS o SHOWERS

Special ends September 31, call now 464-9060 for club tour!

1

.-I

 

 

 

 

PAGE 6

Relieves
heartburn
faster than
standard
treatment

LAST WORD  

SEPTEMBER 20, 1999

Ms. America in the feminist age

By Kevin McManemin

RA VING AND DROOLING

Last week the Miss America Pag-
eant found itself a hot topic of media
buzz, marking the ﬁrst time in about 40
years that anyone has remotely cared
about the Miss America Pageant.

Apparently, Pageant organizers
wanted to relax standards to allow
women who have been divorced or
had abortions to compete. The orga-
nizers said they feared possible law-
suits under New Jersey’s tough anti-
discrimination laws, which is su-
premely ironic for two reasons:

1) Beauty paegants are founded on
the principle of discriminating against
-unattractive women.

2) When have people in New Jer-
-sey ever been concerned about fol-
lowing the laws? They don’t even
think traffic lights are legally binding.
_ Well, the new “I’m-OK-you’re-OK-
jabortion’s-A-OK” ethos didn’t sit so
well with traditionalists, who feared

that soon any crackhead with a de-
icent set of legs could be Miss America.
(And since looks only count for about
'15 percent of the fmaljudgement after
the hokey “interview” and “talent”
portions, she wouldn’t even really
need a decent set of legs. Any thrice-
divorced, cellulite-infested piece of
trailer trash who can cough up some
inane gibberish about “the children
being our future” could walk home
with the crown.)

Basically, like a fratboy debating
between buying a bottle of Bowman’s
Virginia Vodka or Absolut, it’s essen-
tially a question of value. In this post-
feminist, post-modemist, ex post facto
age, we have a hard time saying what
we as a society
value. Once upon
a time, the con-
cepts of feminine
purity and virtue
were idealized.
These days, you
ask a girl her sexual
history and she’s
likely to rattle off a
list of names longer
than the Manhat-
tan phonebook.

If taken as a
gauge of what
America values,
the Miss America
Pageant paints a
pretty pathetic pic-
ture. Apparently
we value false sin-
cerity, cheap senti-
mentality and
campy musical
numbers. The Miss
America Pageant
has been so diluted over the years that
the original, noble intentions of the
Pageant have been drowned under-
neath a sea of the cloy and‘the stupid.

Yes, I think it’s time we reverted to
a simpler era, a time when the Pageant

was about one thing and one thing‘

only: pure, unadulterated sexism.

Look, ladies, if you haven’t ﬁgured
it out already, men aren’t exactly hard
to please. We like beer, we like sex, we
like professional sports for some bi-
zarre reason. We
don’t give a damn
about “posture” or
“poise.” If two
guys are sittin’ on
a park bench, some
gorgeous long-
legged woman
sporting 36 DD’s
saunters by, trust
me, neither of
those guys are go-
ing to lean over to
the other and say
“damn, look at the
posture on her.”

I mean, for gosh
sakes, there are
even women on the
jury of the Miss
America Pageant!
I’ll grant you that,
yes, women do
have a ﬁner eye for
beauty than men,
but the female
form, like football, is something you
just need to have a penis to fully ap-
preciate. No matter how much phony
pretense you want to build around it,
the Miss America Pageant was always
at heart nothing more than a thinly

Boring movie keeps

“Eyes Wide Shut”

By Brian Prisco
PHI MOVIE GUY

Death has this tendency to se-
verely cock-up the distinguished ca-
reers of ﬁlm industry legends. After
the fantastic and hilarious string of

“Z001 2 A Space Odyssey.” And the list
goes on. It’sjust a damn crying shame
it had to end on this blaring note.
“Eyes Wide Shut” is three hours of
my life I’m never going to get back. I’d
tell you what the movie was about, but
frankly I’m not quite sure myself. Ba-

movies John sically that’s
Candy made, ( j V the problem,
do you hon- “ I  ‘    W“  ’ 2' alongwiththe
estly think he '  fact that it’s
wanted to cap , » I just TOO
it off with sex?‘ enormous orgy SCene, D A M N
u W a g 0 n S oneviquick sex scenekbetjween LONG. If it
East!”? Or I K'dma"_andfC,mi5e« . ' , ~ werejust over
Chris Farley N"‘*'.tY?.f¥{'”'°"*3la,.m°StlY fa’ two hours,
ﬁnish up with maleﬂhere mlglithavébeeﬂ male it’d be a de-
“Almost He- but ' Wasn't paw"? 8,9‘-f°."ﬁ°"~ cent ﬂick. In-
mesasy Even 7 Violence: notl1ing,tl1,a2itwouldn'tl Stead, it
Raul Julia’s bejon,   I _ fumbles from
magniﬁcent ca- ‘  U59: al°°h°ig mariiuanas start to ﬁnish
reerendedwith °°Ca'ne- n  jg‘ ’ I like a drunk
“Addams Fam- "'9 skinny: 1,1/43iT5t,.al5'°‘-“Of freshman on
ily Values.” In— 5-..»“.Y3U’re bettef °ff‘{:Fe"tin9 a j the walk of
stead ofending pomq  \' shame, and
with an enig- views like a
matic bang, horrible car

they go out with a soppy flush.
Such is the case with Stanley
Kubrick’s ﬁnal opus “Eyes Wide
Shut.” Kubrick is a brilliant director,
having created some of the greatest
movies ever made, including “Full
Metal Jacket,” “Dr. Strangelove,” “The
Shining,” “Clockwork Orange” and

 

Lexington, VA 24450
Between Dominos
and the Palms

few days.

sale.

Every CD always $1
below list price even
when ordered.

Orders only take a

This is policy, not a

accident. You want to turn away but
you are mesmerized by the chaotic
beauty.

Honestly, I went to see this movie
for one reason: nudity. I am, in my
roommate’s words, a breast enthusi-
ast. I don’t read Playboy for the ar-
ticles. I enjoy nudity, and I think the

Night Owl Music Co.

24 S. Jefferson Street Open 10 a.m. ‘til 9 p.m.

464-4050

female form is one of the most
beautiful examples of nature’s

splendor. And there are plenty
of ﬁne examples in this movie.

But they come so few and far be-
tween, you are better off renting
a porno.

Of course, there are some
quality parts. The orgy sequence
takes place in this elaborate Mar-
quis de Sade phantasmagoria,
with tuxedo clad ﬁgures in Inqui-
sition cloaks and masks sur-
rounding a naked progeny of
women in semi—religious proces-
sion. Leelee Soblieski (“Joan of
Arc,” “Deep Impact”) plays a
young harlot scampering about
in her underwear. Nicole Kidman
is completely naked, Tom Cruise
is not.

However, even these cannot
save this Titanic monstrosity. I’m
sure there is some sort of deep
philosophical artistic message
that I am missing, but if] can’t
get it in three hours, I ain’t get-
ting it at all. It’s just a shame that
a great talent like Stanley Kubrick
had to offer up this steaming hunk of
monkey crap for his ﬁnal “master-

V piece.”

Let this be a fair warning to Sean
Connery. Make a quality film, and fast.
You might be next.

 

Monday — Friday
11 a.m. — 5 p.m.
Saturday

Bring this ad
in and get

$1 on

the marked
price of any .
Cl)!

veiled excuse to get hot chicks to pa-
rade around in skimpy bathing suits.

Now that women are beginning to
take the reigns of this mad runaway
horse called civilization, such piggish
behavior is no longer tolerated. Test-
osterone is gradually being phased out
of our culture. We know that while
we’re at home watching “Sports Cen-
ter,” you women are probably in the
labs trying to ﬁgure out how to per-
manently erase the Y-chromosome
from the human genetic code. And
maybe that’s for the best.

But look, women, while we’re still
here, could you at least give us this
one little thing? Could you at least
leave this last bastion of chauvinistic,
misogynistic behavior untouched?
Can we just ogle beautiful women
once a year without having to suffer
through their trite thoughts on world
peace or their pathetic attempts to belt
out old Aretha Franklin tunes?-

And another thing —just give up
now, North Dakota. l’m sony, but Texas
and California have more than a slight
edge going for the Miss America
crown. Ever wonder why the Beach
Boys never sang “I wish they all could
be North Dakota girls?” Ever been to

WANNA warns FOR  p     
Are you interesting in writing “comedy,”  withleditors ¢yerf:sn¢!;, ,1
hardly-offensive terms as “bitch”and “'I‘&A” and being generally despised on .campus‘{  Q

If the answer to any of these questions is ‘yes,
kmcmanem@wlu.edu and start writin’ today! * « 7’

North Dakota? Some of those farm gals
look heftier than the cows tl1ey’re milk-
ing. Texas’ real largest cash crop is
vapid blonde cheerleader-beauty-
queen stereotypes, and California has
so many silicone implants that real
breasts are now on the endangered
species list. Look, North Dakota,
you’re way out of your league. Just
give up.
Anyway, to return to my original
point, I think we need to return to the
original point of the Miss America Pag-
eant. All this talk about whether or not
abortion clinic frequenters can be
good role models is entirely irrelevant.
The Miss America Pageant is not
about presenting some idealized pic-
ture of womanhood. The Pageant is
not for women at all, it’s for men, and
we are brutally simplistic creatures
with one thought permanently etched
in our minds: sex. The idea that the
Miss America Pageant has any re-
deeming value at all is just one of
those amusing lies men tell, like “I love
you” or “I’ll still respect you in the
morning.”
I think I speak for men everywhere
when I say “Ifthe world was . . . oh,
crap, I’m missing ‘Sports Center.’’’

\ dandy reference guide to.

complaint letter count

<0>

In order to cut down on
the record number of com-
plaint letters 771eLasf Ward
received last year, we've de-
cided to include this handy-

help you decide whether or
not to continue reading lest
you find something offen-
sive.

insulted this week:

'——beauty queens
———New J erseans
——North Dakotans
——Bowman’s
VirginiaVodl<a
—-women
—-men

If you still insist on

kvetching, address hate mail to:
The Last Word Editor I
Circle 7
Hell

  

    

‘or ,if1you’re just liored,ge-niiailj" 

Tom Cruise and Nicole Kidman in “Eyes Wide
Shut,” a disappointing coda to Stanley Kubrick’s
masterful oeuvre. (Sorry for the pretentious words,
but it sounds a lot classier than our original caption,
“Eyes Wide Shut: a piece of s%@#.”)

Waynoﬁb .7Ifor1se

C. 1368
.7 .7)7eo/ a120/.1)’1'ea[/as/

I gfomas  csafa/3, gnnfeeper

jzfayno/fa .7£2u.se 11: an £22:/oricﬁbme /oca/eafin
/£2 [earl o/Bexzhy/on, vzkyzhzh. 9Com a Keof .
anJ 77l‘ayno/fa .7{ouse oﬂers a vane/y
ofyues/suzies anJroom.r, aff a/175 priua/e 54/in
.75e[ouse 12: ma/{Izzy t/zlr/ance/ram a uar1'e(y 5/
sfops, nes/auran/.r, museums, anofseuera//.:o1'n/s
o/in/eres/, as we//as Zﬂasfzhylon anJ6ee
Q1(u‘uer.r17y am/lie vz'ty1'1u'a  .7/is/1711/e.

.501  Wath cslreel
igexinylon, 71724450
6—ma1'[' tnayn o/Ea @roc[[r1TJye. nel
&)e5.ri/e: mayno/iczfouseinn. com
Tiones (540) 463-2567
7of/ 9}-ee: 1-J77-3:5-4664
.’7ax.- (.540) 463-4153

Wfa/or creJr'/ cart/r are acce/2/etf _

REZNICK FEDDER & SILVERMAN, CPAs

RF&S is among the nation’s 25 largest public accounting firms and is actively
recruiting talented accounting students for our offices in Bethesda &
Baltimore, MD; Boston, MA; Atlanta, GA; and Charlotte, NC.

RF&S is the ﬁrm for you if 0 you enjoy the opportunity to use your abilities to
solve complex problems 0 enjoy being involved in all aspects of an
engagement including audit, tax and consulting - enjoy an open minded and
ﬂexible work environment 0 think compensation and advancement should be
determined by abilities and accomplishments

If this describes what you are looking for in a ﬁrm and a career, then RF&S
has a lot to offer you. We will be on campus Tuesday, Sept. 215‘ for an
information session in the Commerce School, and interviewing on Thursday,

Oct. 2 15‘.

For more information, please visit our Website at www.rfs.com or contact

Kirsten Kallen at:

Reznick Fedder & Silverman
4520 East West Highway, Suite 300
Bethesda, MD 20814
Fax: (301) 652-1848

We are an Equal Opportunity Employer

Jr

 

