;

 

   

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNivERsiTY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

 

A_ VOLUME 102, NO. 6

   

FIRST DAY OF SCHOOL: Freshmen congregate outside Graham-
ltheir busy first week’s schedule.

,Select freshmen receive

gunusual orientation

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
Lees dormitory during a break in

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

W&L named to noted
Watson Fellowship list

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1999

Students will have the opportunity to follow dreams, pursue

passions in yearlong adventure

By Polly Doig

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

For graduation-fearing seniors who have already be-
gun praying for a fairy godmother to help out, she may
have arrived in the form of a $22,000 check to chase a
personal passion around the world.

This year Washington and Lee University was added
to the exclusive list of5l small liberal arts colleges who
participate in the Thomas J. Watson Fellowship Pro-
gram. The Watson Fellowship, a year—long post-gradu-
ate fellowship that comes with a $22,000 stipend, ranks
with better known scholarships, such as the Rhodes '
and the Fulbright, but with a distinctive twist, accord-
ing to professor of Spanish Jeffrey Barnett. “You start
here with not what is your major, but rather, what is your
passion,” said Barnett, chairman ofthe Watson Fellow-
ship Committee.

Since the inauguration of the fellowship program in
1968, the Watson Foundation has granted more than 2,000
awards, totaling approximately $23,137,000. Watson
alumni range from the B-52’s lead guitarist to college presi-
dents to NBC executives, and have traveled through
myriad countries-in Search of information on anything
from “The changing role of banquets in Chinese Cul-
ture” to “Space, Place and Identity in the European Cir-
cus.” The Watson is also unique in that it places empha-
sis not so much on the product, but rather the process,
that recipients undergo.

As a result, Barnett has already been swamped with
requests for more information, and it looks as though

competition for W&L’s four nominee spots will be fierce.

“I think the interest will be very strong because it’s
such a great program,” senior Shannon Bell, who plans
on applying, said. “Everyone that I’ve talked to about it
thinks it’s so incredible and exciting.”

The Watson Committee, headed up by Barnett, will
aid in the selection and subsequent mentoring process
for the four students W&L will nominate. Then, during
the months of November through February, representa-
tives of the Watson Foundation will travel around the
country interviewing the four nominees at each partici-
pating college.

On Sept. 27th, an infonnational meeting will be held in
Northen Auditorium at 7 pm.

Barnett claims that in spite of a pool of more than 200
applicants nationally, chances of selection are still good,
as 60 fellowships will be awarded. Further, he stresses
that desire and enthusiasm are more important than grades
in this case.

“If you are a person who doesn’t require structure
and supervision, the Watson is for you,” Barnett said.
“The sky’s the limit.”

Bell is equally impressed with the freedom inherent in
the Watson Fellowship.

“You create your own program,” Bell said. “Basically,
you get paid to pursue your passion.” .

For now, she is planning how to follow her own
passion.

“I’d like to study poverty in other English speaking
countries and see how it compares to the poverty that
I’ve studied in the United States,” Bell said.

 

Shepard Poverty Program provides entering students with
ﬁrst-ever opportunity to experience poverty ﬁrsthand.

I

By Sara Lambert

STAFF WRITER

A group of freshmen recently participated in an orien-
%tation project unusual for the W&L experience — be-
coming acquainted with poverty.

Almost 30 freshman worked with Total Action Against
Poverty (TAP) in Roanoke during the week preceding
freshman orientation, participating in various activities
‘designed to give them a feel for impoverished living con-
ditions.

“We got to meet people and make a real difference,”
said Stacy McLoughlin, sophomore volunteer coordina-

!tor for the week, when asked about the best part of the
week.

Some students went into the projects in Roanoke and
took surveys, speaking with the tenants about whether
they thought their neighborhoods are safe and what could

‘be done to alleviate their condition. Other students worked
with Project Discovery, a workshop designed to encour-
age prospective first generation college students to stay
in school and to help high school students fill out col-

'lege applications and secure financial aid.

The freshman also served as teacher’s aides in the
Head Start Program, participated in evening seminars with
TAP employees, and worked with Blue Ridge Housing
and Development and the Transitional Living Center,

helping men and women recently released from prison
get back on their feet. _

“Our trip left me with a new sense of what poverty
really is in America,” said freshman Gavin Douglas. “I
consider myself one of a fortunate few who experienced
this.”

Throughout the week the students lived in Melrose
Towers, a public housing project, and experienced first
hand what it felt like to live in poverty.

One afternoon they were given a limited budget and
took the bus to experiment with buying food within cer-
tain means.

“Now we want to take the spark of that week and turn
it into something for everyone [at W&L],” McLoughlin
said.

There will be a meeting Thursday at 8:15 pm in Fairfax
Lounge for all those interested in volunteering in Lexing-
ton, Rockbridge County, or the surrounding area. The
new student group, yet to be named, will coordinate stu-
dents and their interests in productive learning experi-
ences that give back to the community. One idea that will
be pursued is the re-facing of Head Start centers in the
area.

All students are encouraged to come to the meeting
whether they are able to give twenty minutes or twenty
hours a week, and bring ideas for service projects and an
open mind.

SINGLE FILE LINE KIDS: Eager seniors prepare to walk during their

ﬁnal Fall Convocation.

 

Gould disputes anti- 

‘ evolution decision

HReknowned author angered by Kansas

” school board’s banning of evolution
- life means,” said Gould.
B}L]9Max Smlth Gould pointed out that most reli-
TAFF WRITER . . ,
* gions in the world don t have a prob-
The evolution debate rolled into lem with science.
Lexington this week. The enormous pluralism of Prot-
Noted scientist and author estantism started the debate, said
Stephen Jay Gould, in town to give Gould. It has become an issue of
it the Fall Convocation address, dis- personal testimony for some who
cussed the “silly” decision by the now find themselves in apolitically
Kansas Board of Education to make powerful position.
the evolution optional in the'science Gould dismissed the Kansas de-
curriculum. cision as a manuever brought about
4 “It’s like teaching English,” said by a five year campaign of
Gould, “but making grammar op- evangelicals to control the board by
tional. [You’re] taking the center- a single vote. Gould believes the
piece out of science.” people of Kansas will reverse the
K Gould wrote an editorial disagree- decision next year and elect a new
ing with the Kansas Board’s deci- board.
sion for Time magazine two weeks ‘ Gould argued that one cannot
ago. He held a question and answer deny the mounds of evidence sup-
session on the evolution debate be- porting evolution. He further criti-
‘» fore his convocation address. cized the dishonesty of the people ,
He argued that the issue of sci- on the Kansas school board who
ence and religion is 3 question Oflim‘ provide such a limited viewpoint for
its, and that the two shouldn’t mix the cun.icu1um_
‘ and °0“ﬂlC‘- “It’s disrespectful to the genuine

“Science can’t provide guidelines
for ethical behavior and what your

progress we’ve made by not calling
evolution ‘fact.”’

_ms.i:-:a::s-sc>\~="5

.1, /..x /

photo by Polly l)oig/ Executive Editor

ONWARD Ho!: Professor Merchant leads the faculty during Fall
Convocation.

NAACP Chair Julian
Bond to speak at W&L

Julian Bond, chairman of the Na-
tional Association for the Advance-
ment of Colored People, will speak at
Washington and Lee University on
Wednesday, Sept. 15.

Bond’s talk, “2000: A Race Odys-
sey,” will take place in Lee Chapel at

7:30 p.m. and is open to the public.
Bond’s lecture will incorporate
Anne Moody’s powerful autobiogra-
phy, Coming of Age in Mississippi.
Moody’s 1969 book, which details her

SEE BOND ON PAGE 2

OPINION:
BBQ Southern style

W&LiEE:

SPORTS:

LAST WORD:

Ellie ‘iﬁing-tum lﬁlit

-September 13, 1999

TMC gets face-lift, roommates

Football picks up where they left off

PAGE 2

PAGE 3

PAGE 4
PAGE 6

 

PAGE 2

 ON

SEPTEMBER 13, 1999 A

More northern
aggresion

The symptoms of my parents’case of empty nest syn-

.drome didn’t commence with lingering glances of
\ nostaglgia cast towards my barren bedroom. Rather, their
.pre-college, oldest-daughter-leaving anxieties were hall-

marked by nervous nail biting accompanied by the phrase,

* “Kristen, no one does that down there. They’ll kick you
. right out of W&L.

Yes, apparently a nicotine habit is grounds for expul-

fsion in the eyes of my mother. "You’ll be the only one
- down there who smokes. They don’t do that down south.”I

gently reminded her I was going to college, not a monas-
tery.

Admittedly I contested Ulysses S. Grant was the presi-
dent of the Confederacy. Once. But believe me, it was a
mistake I won’t soon make again. But barring the fact that
what I know
about the civil
war you could
ﬁt in a thirnble
(nad have
room left over
for southern
belle etiquette), we northemers (Yankees for the layman)
are not so different for you southemers. To dissolve any
common misconceptions, Ny-er does not equate with “hard
core”. No, I’ve never been mugged. I don’t spend more
time in Grand Central Station than I do in the bathroom.
(But then again, I probably don’t spend as much time any-
where as I do the bathroom.) But I digress. My first clue
that I wasn’t in New York anymore (toto) was the BBQ’ s do
not consist of cheeseburgers and hotdogs. “This is a REAL
BBQ, hon. Pork BBQ.” Interesting. A real BBQ. I suppose
those northern ones must have just been Brand X ones.
Fisher Price ones as opposed to the Armani Exchange
BBQ’s down here. Regardless, I would have given my left
arm for a steak right then.

And I don’t think I’ve ever seen grits in the ﬂesh and
blood before. I think theremight have been a brief mention
of it in “My Cousin Vinny” or something but when I asked
what they were, someone looked at me like I’d just as-
serted Roe versus Wade were canoeing options. This “Are
you for real?”look that humbled my northern heritage and
pride.

I suppose there is a certain slang that the south never
has and (fortunately?) never will adopt:

“Mad heads rolling up”—”A lot of people showed up.”

“I’m D.”—”Sounds good.”

“I’m peacing.”—”I’m leaving.”

But recognizing my blatant position as a minority, I will

 

' most likely succomb to the foreigh ways of this glorious
j southern culture, and maybe then y’all will be more recep-
L tive to our unfamiliar mannerisms.

Want to work for The
Ring-tum Phi?

Come to a staff meeting.
7pm Tuesdays.

Ellie iiting-tum iﬂlii

Polly Doig
Hollister Hovey
Mike Crittenden
Opinions Editor Stephanie Bianco
W&Life Editors Ginger Phillips

__ Elianna Marziani
Sports Editor Frances Groberg

Assistant Sports Editor Steele Cooper
Last Word Editor Kevin McManemin
Copy Editor Heather McDonald

Executive Editor
Associate Editor
News Editor

Photo Editor Emily Barnes
Assistant Photo Editor Lisa Lin
Online Editor Ali Soydan
Circulation Director Leo Brown

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Ofﬁce: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wIu.edu
http://wIu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

Dodging mom’s phonecalls
and wasting the day away

As the first few weeks of classes roll along, most of us will
fall into a comfortable routine. The discombobulation of that
sketchy transition period between summer jobs and fall
course loads will fade, and we will soon form our daily and
weekly habits for this new semester.

Some of those habits may include
rising with the sun, heading out for a
brisk morning run amidst the glorious  
Shenandoah skyline, and whipping up » ~ -v «-' "
a few pancakes. Walking over to the
library every morning, you hope to have more e-mail mes-

    

sages than simply those deceiving Postmaster announce— ’

ments.

On Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays you eat lunch
at 12:15 p.m. whereas on Tuesdays and Thursdays, you
eat at 1 1:45 a.m. You study for two hours after your 2 p.m.
politics class before going home to watch 20 minutes of
The Weather Channel. You just love those kooky
weatherpersons. Christina Abernathy is cool, but she’s no
Jim Cantore. There’s that love/hate relationship with Dr.
Steve Lions. If he comes on, you know there’s a hurricane
a brewing. On the other hand, he’s just so darn special that
you can’t wait to see him. Everyday you comment to your
roommate that you look at the weather in your hometown
rather than the weather in Lexington.

The History Channel’s six-month series on Millard
Fillmore comes on at 7 p.m. on Tuesdays, so you have to
meet your friends at 6:30 for the Fillmore pre-party. From
10 to 10:08 p.m. you spend some quality time with ev-
ery ab’s best friend, Jaime Brenkus, ACSM Certiﬁed
Instructor. That’s right. The “:08 min. Abs” video is
safe, effective and it is fun. These exercises will never
hurt you.

You know mom is going to call somewhere between 8

  Off His Rocker
 Stephen Pesce ’01

 

and 10 p.m. on Sunday to ask about your week, but most
importantly to ask if you went tq church. So at 7:45 you head
over to a friend’s place and laugh at quarter to nine when his
mom calls. You recognize those classic get-rid-of-mom lines
anywhere, “I have to get my laundry
out of the drier,” “I have tons of read-
ing to do,” or, my personal favorite,
“You mined my childhood.” That one
never fails. .

There are hundreds of other little
things that you do on a daily or weekly basis. Some of
them are important. Some of them are mere time-wasters. In
any case, you get used to them. By October first, you have
a routine that will not change until Winter Break. Surely we
do not all do the same things. We all manage our time in
different ways.

One thing, however, that everyone should ﬁt in to that
routine is community service. So many opportunities on
campus and in the community get overlooked by all of us.
We ﬁnish our course assignments and we call it a day. Big
Brothers and Big Sisters, Habitat for Humanity, tutoring at
the local schools, among many others are great opportuni-
ties. We should take advantage of them.

I personally have trouble ﬁnding the time or the desire
for things like that on a random basis. But, if I schedule it in
my routine from the beginning, there’s a better chance of
my keeping up with it. Getting used to a new semester is
difﬁcult, but altering your routine later presents greater
problems. Now, before getting into a rut, is the time to allot
time for things like Habitat or being a Big Brother.

Now that I sound frighteningly like the nagging mother
whose calls we dread (not to be confused with the loving,
caring mother whose calls we cherish), I will stop rambling.
Have a good day and call your mother.

Here We go again, just
one more Saturday night

Ahhhh yes, another year is here welcoming an-
other freshman class, and a return to the joys of
academia for upperclassmen. Like every other year
in school history, the Admissions Office has her-
alded this class as the biggest, the brightest, and
most involved in school history. From what I’ve
seen so far, it is true, they are
definitely the biggest. That’s
not to say they aren’t the
smartest and most active also,
but hearing that every new
student is better than you in
every way can really start to grate on even the most
benevolent upperclassman’s ego.

In fact, I honestly do enjoy the coming of a new
crop of freshmen every year, because it reminds me of
the excitement of my own ﬁrst few weeks in Lex Vegas.
As a dorm counselor, this year I admit I have felt a little
twinge ofjealousy while watching the guys on my hall
yell to each other about which parties are going on,
which girls they met the night before, and the tremen-
dous amount of homework they have in their introduc-
tory classes. Shouts of “grain party at Pole House”,
“kegs at Cabin 22”, and “late night at Chi Psi” ring
through the halls.

Though it’s hard to reminisce being 20 years old
and only a junior, the unadulterated excitement of the
fall term of freshman year is one of the things that
make this school special; something I am reminded of
in the excitement that bums in their slightly hazed eyes.
They bring with them an orgasmic energy that drives

  

 

 Balderdash
 Mike Crittenden ’o1

 

them in hordes, walking from party to party, from
Davidson to Red Square and back again.

I remember as a freshman sitting on the back porch
ofthe Outing Club House with a friend, sipping a 40 of
Corona and watching the hordes of freshmen invading
fraternity basements. Finished looting them of all their
free alcohol, they would move on,
seeking out prey like the Norse Vi-
kings of old. It is that excitement,
that raw energy, that I loved about
freshman year, because you were al-
ways meeting new people, and al-
ways living for the unknown, virgin experience.

I guess this leads me to some advice for the fresh-

_ men, sage though it is not. Enjoy this time and as my

friend Slim always says, live in the now. Somewhere
between the kegs of Natural Light and the trash cans
full of grain punch lies something great and special
about this school.

Though impossible to grasp fully, it’s importance is
in the students and our love of who and what we are.
Its this that blesses us with the greatest alumni sup-
port in the country. At no other school in the country
does one see so much love for the institution and the
people involved.

This is the reason I always get chills driving into
Lexington and seeing the Colonnade rising up behind
Lee Chapel with all its history and honor. So love it
and never leave it, the family that is this University
that is. And to all you freshmen, welcome to the roost
you now call your home.

The freshman
15 and more. . .

I was told the impressions of a wide-eyed incoming J,
freshman would be amusing to entrenched upperclassmen
presumably devoid of excitement at returning to W&L.
Whatever. At the risk of sounding trite or, heaven forfend,
dull, I shall try to

 

encapsulate ori- ————-—————————— 4*
entation week in Haven Forfend '
these few para- ,

graphs in hopes Sara Lamben 03

that my fellow },

freshmen may

save this issue and look back with fondness years later
and that upperclassmen may read and (smirk if you like)
remember.

Saturday evening, after saying a tearful goodbye to 1
parents (alright, just leave already), I began the rounds of
optimistic yet not particularly memorable introductions.

“Hi, I’m Sara from New Jersey”

“Oh, J oisey...what part?” (what exit?)

“Bemardsville-Bridgewater-Somerville-Morristown-
New York City” (Peapack, 07977)

“That’s nice.” (shaking head, no clue) “You’re a fresh-
man, right.” (here, have a beer)

20 minutes later same guy...“Hi Jeremy-Peter-Rob-Mike- ‘
Chris” “It’s Kevin, hi, have we met? (quite possibly) I’m
from Atlanta” “Oh, hi Kevin, Pm San, from Jersey.” If I had
to judge the size of W&L based on those party encounters
I would estimate it in the tens of thousands. Nonetheless, it
the beer ﬂows freely, the people are nice, the stress level is
minimal and the only concern is the Lexington police catch-
ing you watering the bushes. .

As the week progressed we found our way to the din- _q
ing hall for at least one meal and then to Walmart for the
requisite odd-hour junk food. We struggled with the com-
puter network and online registration. The system told me,
more than once, it couldn’t find my ethemet card and I
decided not to argue. Good thing, too, as I heard it got mad ‘:
and deleted some people from the register. They now at-
tend Davidson.

Like all freshmen I attended the myriad of mandatory
dress-up meetings. For girls at least these serve a greater 1‘
orientation purpose than “small group” or “big brother.”
Unlike the men who wear standard khakis, blue blazer, white
shirt, red tie, women must wear something different to each
of these parades of fashion. Thereby reslutirig in exhaus-
tive discussions of taste and style: I

“Hi, Sara, Joisey.”

“Do you think this makes me look fat?”

“Of course not! That’s so pretty!”

Can we all say in one resounding chorus “freshman
ﬁfteen”! Cheers!

uote of the week: ’ ' A

((

“I feel like I just spent an .v.
hour in a public
restroom.”

— Senior Collin Gleason on his last visit to
the new Wafﬂe House

Major decisions

it

I am not a practical man. Those of you who know me are it I

probably turning to the person beside you and saying dis-
gustedly, “impractical?...offensively absent-minded I’d say.”
Ok, fine, absent-minded, impractical...yes, I am. I have known
this for some time you realize. Ever since I found myself with

a concussion from falling oﬁ" of the ﬁve pairs of my mothers ‘
high-heels I stacked one on top of the other to peek at my
Christmas presents hidden on the top shelf of my parents
closet, ever since that day I’ve been painfully aware of my
own deﬁciency of common sense.

And so it’s
been for the last
ninteen years of
my life, unaware
of saying rude,
rude things in
public, catching
myself halfway to my room with an armful of books I just
walked out of the library with (don’t worry they were all re-
turned and properly checked out). You know, things like that. I

But I’ve tried, for a good chunk of my lifeI’ve tried not to
do things like forget to show up to a guitar lesson I was
teaching. And over the summer I tried my hardest to be prac-
tical when I thought about the major I ’ll be declaring this year t
that will affect the rest of my time on God’s green earth.

I leafed through the departmental pages of our course
offering catalogue this past August and I realized that I
would either be choosing a practical major or its oppositef
that which has caused all mayhem and wackiness in today’s '*
world - an impractical major.

But as I skimmed over the course decriptions I couldn’t
help but find myself pouring over everything I was trying to
avoid. I couldn’t go on, and I found myself getting pissed at
myself for even attempting. It was decided: I was going to
pick the major God and his entire host of singing angels
wanted me to pick. Hell I’ll even be a double major! So this
year when we, as sophomores, ﬁll out our forms and declare
our majors, I’ll think of all of you who will be declaring a ;
liberal art, or whatever we’d agreed to call them. And I will
throw the biggest party of the new millenium when that
committee accepts my proposal to create a calligraphv major.

 

Public Service
Tom Grove ‘O2 ,1

 

 

 

 

Ellie Iaing-tum lﬂlii

NEWS

)-

SEPTEMEER 13, 1999 PAGE 3
G IN t 3°“
 O  from pagel
W&L institutes new childhood in rural Mississippi and her Bond, a faculty member in the his- Bond has also authored a

K recycling program

Washington and Lee Uni-
versity has introduced a new
recycling program this week
that should reduce the
amount of garbage the Uni-
versity currently Ships to the
landﬁll.

Robert Akins, professor of

‘l physics and engineering at W&L and chair of the
University’s environmental planning and management
committee, explained that recycling will be easier than
ever. Rather than presorting recyclables, faculty, staff
and students will be able to deposit clean cardboard
and paper ofall types, plastic and aluminum into the
same container. These blue containers will be identi-
ﬁed by a “Let’s All Pitch In” sticker and will be placed
in each building on campus and on every dormitory
K hall.

Physical plant will then empty these containers
and send the paper, plastic and aluminum to Cycle
Systems, a company that sorts the items for recy-

A cling. Cycle Systems will reject any containers that
have glass or garbage. “We’re asking everyone to
please pay attention to what they put into the recy-

cling container,” emphasized Akins, “because a con-

taminated container not only means recyclable mate-
4 rial will end up in the landﬁll, but that W&L will have
to spend extra money transporting that container to
the landfill and on dumping fees.”

For now, separate containers will be established
to collect glass between the Co-Op and the Graham-
Lees dormitory, and bulk cardboard will continue to
be collected and baled at the bookstore and dining
hall. “Our eventual goal,” Said Akins, “is to reduce
glass on campus because it is too heavy and danger-
ous to recycle.”

The environmental planning and management com-
mittee will be asking for volunteer advocates to moni-
tor the recycling program for each building. More

I

I‘

R information about W&L’s recycling program can be
found on the W&L homepage under the Campus Ser-
vices link or by calling W&L’s physical plant at 463-
8490.

A

Smith publishes new poetry volume

Rod Smith,_ editor” of Washington and Lee
University's literary quarterly Shenandoah, has added
another volume of poems to his long list of publica-
tions.

This summer Split the Lark: Selected Poems, was pub-
lished by Salmon Publishing Ltd. in Ireland. The book
will be published by Dufors Publishing this fall for a

"November release date in the U.S.

An American publishing poetry in Ireland, said Smith
is like "bringing coals to Newcastle," but he tailored
his selection ofpoems to suit an Irish audience. Smith,
who has spent extensive time living and working in Ire-

5 land says the Irish are fascinated in particular with Na-
tive American life and growing up in the rural South.
He also included poems on birds and on Ireland's mod-
em social issues.
Split the Lark won the Salmon Transatlantic Poetry
Prize, and while Smith was in Ireland this summer, he
gave several readings from the collection. This marks
Smith's seventh volume of poetry to be published. His
collections The Cardinal Heart and Trespasser were
‘> nominees for the Pulitzer Prize in Poetry. He is working
on his next anthology to be titled Shine in Darkness,
I00 Poems of the Moon.

Film Society offers “Elizabeth” for

season opener
Washington and Lee University’s Film Society will
show Elizabeth (England, 1998), directed by Shekhar
» Kapur on September 17 and 18. As always, showings
‘ will start at 7:30 p.m. in the Troubadour Theater on
Henry Street. There will be no charge for admission,
although contributions are very welcome.
History is written by winners, and rewritten by
each succeeding age in its own image. Elizabeth-
H , Shekhar Kapur’s vibrant, red-blooded biofilm about
the shaky young outsider who steered her way
through a succession of political and amatory
mineﬁelds to reinvent herself as the invincible Virgin
‘ Queen, Holy Mother of England-is dazzling enter-
0 tainment that never attempts to hide its frankly con-
temporary slant.

‘03 hits in Lex

By Sara Lambert

STAFF WRITER

A

,»

ﬁv

468 ‘freshmen began their careers at W&L last week.
According to admissions statistics, they represent 36 states,

D.C., and 19 foreign countries, most prominently Virginia,
‘ Maryland, Georgia, and New York.

/4. Among them are scholars, athletes, volunteers, and model

citizens. Nearly 90% of the Class of 2003 took more than
three years each of foreign language study, math and labo-
ratory science. 88% took Advanced Placement courses while
in high school.

The incoming clas also contributes experience in a vast
range of extracurricular athletics and activities. Over half
were members of the National Honor Society, and a quarter
were each varsity captains and presidents of school clubs
and organizations. Judging from their accomplishments the
past four years, the next four will be exciting for both W&L
and the Class of 2003!

 

Many of our ideas about Queen Elizabeth I have
been put there by movies starring the likes of Bette
Davis and Glenda Jackson, but none of her prede-
cessors has a thing on the new Elizabeth, Cate
Blanchett (known until now for Oscar and Lucinda).

The wonderful case also includes Richard
Attenborough, Geoffrey Rush,Joseph Fiennes, and
John Gielgud.

Mark Rush earns grant from APSA

Mark Rush, associate professor of politics at Washing-
ton and Lee University, received a grant from the American
Political Science Association to conduct a study titled “‘Re-
search and Database Development on the Impact of Redis-

tricting in American and Canadian Electoral Svctems ”
Rush was one of twelve applicants to be selected for the

Small Grant Research program, which was established in
1984 to make resources available to scholars afﬁliated with
institutions without large research budgets. A total of 13
grants were awarded by the APSA from 53 proposals. Rush’s
grant provides up to $1,800 of nonrenewable support to
cover nearly all research expenses.

Rush joined the W&L faculty in 1990 and was promoted
to associate professor politics in 1996. He earned his B.A.
at Harvard and his M.A. and Ph.D. from Johns Hopkins.

W&L ranked 14th in US. News &

Word Report survey

Washington and Lee University is ranked 14th in this
year’s U.S. News & World Report rankings of the nation’s
top liberal arts colleges. This marks the 13th consecutive
year that W&L has been ranked among the nation’s top
liberal arts colleges by the magazine.

Among the categories used in the evaluation are aca-
demic reputation, graduation rate, student retention, fac-
ulty resources, student selectivity. ﬁnancial resources and
alumni giving. W&L scored particularly high in the areas
of faculty resources (2nd), alumni giving (7th) and student
selectivity (9th). ‘

o y oig/Executive Editor
SIGN ME UP!?!?: Freshman talk to student
organizations at the Activities Fair
Wednesday.

Wfaynoﬁa jfouse

C. I 6’ 66’
7 .7)9ea/a12o/ f/31*ea£/as!‘
yﬁomas  csafa/s, gnnfeeper

jzfaynodra .7{ouse 11: an .511:/or1'c'.6ome/oca/eJ1'n
/fe [earl 0/6)ex/ny/on, v1'1y1'n1'a. won; a fear
anofgreaf/[as/, yﬂyno/fa Jﬁause o/yrs a vane/y
o/yues/suzies anJnooms, a// (11175 prioa/e 5a/£3-.
gﬂefouse 1s ma/Amy J11)‘/ance /mm a oar-1'e{y 0/
sfops, rues/auran/s, museums, anJseuera/pain/s
ofin/eres/, as azeff as ?B)as£}'ny/on ano/éiee
Qln/newly am/Me T)i2y1m'a97&£7a.7 Qmhiu/e.

.501  Wain Cslreel
gexthy/on,  244.50
(3—ma1'[' mayno/Ea @roc[5r1}{ye. nel
zUe5.r:'/e: ma_7na/iafouseinn. cam
577£one.- (540) 463-2567
%// Z-ee; I-377-3.5.5-4664
Zn: (:40) 463-4356’

Wfﬂa/or creJi/ carfr are accep/er/.

work as a civil rights activist, was the
selection for W&L’s freshman reading
program this summer. The freshman
reading program is now in its fourth
year and is an infomial way to assimi-
late new students into the W&L com-
munity. All of the entering freshmen
join faculty members and upperclass
student leaders in reading a selected
book and then they break down into
smaller discussion groups. Nearly 600
people take part in the program each
summer.

tory department at the University of
Virginia, has been an active participant
in the movements for civil rights, eco-
nomic justice and peace for more than
three decades. As a student at
Morehouse College in the late l950’s
and early 1960’s, he was founder of
the Atlanta student sit-in and
anti-segregation organization and of
the Student Nonviolent Coordinating
Committee. He went on to serve more
than 20 years in the Georgia General
Assembly.

nationally-distributed newspaper col-
umn and has narrated several documen-
taries, including the Academy-Award
winning A Time for Justice and the
prize-winning and critically acclaimed
series Eyes on the Prize.

Bond has served four terms on the
national board for the NAACP and
was elected to his current position of
chairman of the board in February 1998.
He has been honored with honorary
degrees from 15 universities and col-
leges.

Emily Barnes/Photo Editor

TOO MUCH WORK ALREADY: Sophomore Baxter Lee marches down the Colonnade as classes

began Thursday. ,

‘My body is Y2K compatible...

How about_yours?”

STUDENT SPECIAL

$199 PAID IN FULL
- OR _
$29 PER MONTH

FOR A FULL SCHOOL YEAR!

. AIR CONDITIONED FACILITIES

- 30 AEROBICS CLASSES PER WEEK. OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK. BODY
MASTERS EQUIPMENT . HAMMER STRENGTH EQUIPMENT . 22
PIECES OF CARDIOVASCULAR EQUIPMENT. PRO SHOP . TANNING
SPECIALS . LOCKERS . SHOWERS

Special ends September 31, call now 464-9060 for club tour!

@MEGA

FITNESS

CENTER

 

 

‘PAGE 4

Women’s Soccer
bounces back

By Frances Groberg

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee women’s soccer team emerges
from its opening weekend with a record of 1-1. The real
story from the weekend, however, has nothing to do with
the win and loss column. The defeat that the Generals suf-
fered cannot be measured numerically.

Senior captain Deirdre Coyle suffered a broken leg ﬁve
minutes into Saturday’s contest against Emory.

“The loss of [Coyle] will be as much, if not more, of a
loss of leadership as a physical loss,” junior captain Shana
Levine said.

Coyle’s absence was felt on the ﬁeld as the Generals
struggled against the Eagles. The game remained scoreless
through the 75th minute behind 17 saves by goalies senior
Stephanie McKnight and junior Lauren Harris.

I Despite these defensive efforts, Emory was able to
oiltshoot W&L 23 to four. The Generals broke down in the
second half, allowing three Emory goals in a span of only
two minutes.

Head coach Jan Hathom cited a number of factors that
contributed to Saturday’s loss.

“I think we played scared, and respected Emory almost
too much. Fitness also played a great factor. We just weren’t
able to keep up during those two minutes.”

Hathom also noted that the psychological effects of
losing Coyle in such a dramatic fashion could have hin-
dered the tearn’s performance.

The weekend would end on a high note, however. In-
spired perhaps by a sheet inscribed with the words, “Do it
for Deirdre,” the team found their intensity and their focus
against Shenandoah on Sunday aﬂemoon.

ODAC-favorite volleyball looks ready to smash competition

By Steele Cooper

SPOR Ts EDITOR

Coming off last year’s ODAC championship season,
the Washington and Lee women’s volleyball team looks
ready to bring home their ﬁlth title in six years. In the latest
ODAC Coach’s poll the General’s are picked to ﬁnish first
in the conference.

Backing up this selection are four returning starters and A
ten letter winners. Teri Dadio Campbell, 1998 ODAC Coach
of the Year, returns to lead the squad. Look for sophomore
Lindsey Ruckert, senior Nancy Reinhart, and sophomore
Lee Charbonet to maintain big hitting and blocking at the
net. Senior Tori Hayes returns to fortify defense on the
back line and senior Pam Saulsbury once again runs the
offense from the setter’s position.

The Generals opened their season on Friday at the
two day W&L Invitational. W&L was faced with defend-
ing last year’s Invitational title against Catholic Univer-
sity, Mary Baldwin, North Carolina Wesleyan, St. Mary’s
(MD), and Shenandoah.

“We really picked up from where we left off well,” said
Saulsbury. “The season got off to a solid start.”

Saturday, Catholic University went home with the title
this year defeating W&L in a tough-fought ﬁve game ﬁnal
(15-6, ll-15,15-9,11-15,15-ll).

Aﬁer defeating Catholic in four games earlier in the tour-
nament, the Generals found themselves down early in the
match. Catholic jumped out to a 14-0 lead in the first game
but W&L was able to stall the inevitable by going on a six
point run before dropping the game.

That comeback drive proved successful for the Gen-

  2:09 Drill

Men’s, Women’sSwimming honored as
Academic All-Americans _

The Washington and Lee Women's Swimming team
was recently honored as an Acaderriic All-American
Team by the College Swimming Coaches Association
of America (CSCAA). Two W&L swimmers also reaped
individual accolades from the CSCAA. Margaret Hoehl
(’99) was named as an individual Women's Division III
Academic All-American. On the men's side, senior
James Browne achieved Honorable Mention All-Ameri-
can status.

The women's team posted the third highest GPA of
any Division III school in the nation (3.497) and re-
ceived a superior rating ﬁom the CSCAA, the highest
honor given.

Browne posted a perfect 4.0 GPA to attain his
honor. The pre-med ihajor captained the 1999 men's
squad.

Jacobs—Moore to enter Hall of Fame
Washington and Lee women's swimming coach
Kiki Jacobs Moore is slated to be inducted into the
Dickinson College Athletic Hall of Fame on Sept 25.
A 1989 graduate, Jacobs Moore was a four-year
letterwinner and three-time team most valuable swim-
mer for the Red Devils. She set 24 school records and
six conference records in swimming, earning All-
American honors 1 1 times during her career. As a se-
nior, Jacobs Moore received the ‘McAndrews Award,
given to the Dickinson Female Athlete of the Year.
Jacobs Moore came to W&L in 1991. In her eight
years as the Generals‘ mentor, Jacobs Moore has led
W&L to ﬁve consecutive ODAC/Atlantic States
Championships and has been named the ODAC/At-
lantic States Coach of the Year six years in a row.

Elli: Ring-tum iﬁlii

PORTS

Out of my way:

W&L pummeled their opponents 7-0, with goals from
junior Lindsay Williams, sophomore Kate Bidwell, junior
Margaret-Hunter Turner, freshman Ruth Hill Yeilding, and
junior Courtney Nolan. Senior Ansley Miller and Turner
each had two assists.

“We played much better on Sunday because we played

erals in the second game. Down early once again, W&L
came back from an eleven point deﬁcit to win the sec-
ond 15-1 1.

“We just dug ourselves in really big holes and got a
little overwhelmed,” said Saulsbury.

The ﬁnal three games of the ﬁnal match were side-out

ﬁlled offensive battles. Catholic came out on top in the

ﬁfth by a score of 15-1 1 in rally scoring. ~

“Tliey‘came out strong and ready to beatus. We didn’t
take them for granted at all but we were just very well
matched,” said Charbonet.

“In this match [against Catholic] we let them dictate
play and have the momentum,” said Ruckert.

The offensive attack in the finals was lead by
Ruckert, 1998 Rookie of the Year, with nineteen kills and
by Charbonet with thirteen. They each tallied ﬁﬁeen and
fourteen digs respectively.

To get to the ﬁnals W&L easily defeated North Caro-
lina Wesleyan 15-4, 15-4, 15-4 in the semis. This win ex-
tended the Generals’ winning streak to nineteen. Tori Hays
held off Wesleyan’s offence with thirteen digs.

Friday, in the second round of the tournament W&L
faced eventual champion Catholic and pulled out the 15-
10,7-15, 15-7, 15-10 win. This win was W&L’s ﬁrsttestby
a solid opponent of the season.

“The match on Friday [against Catholic] was easier than
the Saturday match. They improved their play and did all
of the little things right,” said Saulsbury.

W&L received their ﬁrst win of the season in the open-
ing round of the tournament on Friday against Mary
Baldwin College (15-1, 15-3, 15-5) thus extending their win-
ning streak from last season to seventeen.

Men’s soccer
loses opener

By Robert Turner

STA FF WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s soccer team opened their
season Saturday with a disappointing loss to Catholic Uni-
versity in Washington, D.C. The Cardinals, who lost to the
Generals last year early in the season, appeared much im-
proved this season and won the rather lackluster match 2-1.

Catholic scored their ﬁrst goal midway throught the first
half on a penalty kick aﬁer an infraction by the Generals in
the box. The Cardinals added their second goal early in the
second half after a cross was deﬂected off of a W&L player.

The Generals ﬁnally got on the scoreboard with ten
minutes to play on a header from sophomore forward An-
drew Grimes, who was assisted by senior Jason Miller.

The Cardinals played a conservative defensive style
for the rest of the game, denying the Generals any more
opportunities to tie the game.

The Generals were plagued by problems throughout
the game, mostly on the defensive end.

“We struggled defensively all over the ﬁeld, but still
had plenty of opportunities to score,” senior captain Scott
LeToumeau said. “We just couldn’t put another one away.”

Sophomore John Stroebel felt that the discrepancy in
the number of games each team had played on the season
was another factor in the loss. While this was W&L’s ﬁrst
contest, Catholic had already played three games before
facing the Generals.

“We played kind of tentative, and they were deﬁnitely
more aggressive than we were,” Stroebel said.

The Generals take the ﬁeld twice this week, playing
Southern Virginia at home on Monday and traveling to
Randolph Macon on Friday.

Photo by Emily Bamcs/Photo Editor

Junior Amanda McDermott blasts past a defender on Saturday against Emory.

loose, and better as a team,” junior captain Shana Levine
said. “A lot of people have been injured, so we’re still
dragging a bit, but we’re pulling it together.”

The Generals begin their ODAC tournament play this
week with games on Thursday at Hollins University and
home on Saturday against Virginia Wesleyan.

SEPTEMBER 13, 1999 “

Generals fall~
to Hopkins .

W&L loses 31-14 despite

more total yardage, 412-373. r

By Steele Cooper

SPORTS EDITOR

It was the opening game that could’ve been. The Wash-
ington and Lee football team played a solid four quarters but
failed to execute the key plays necessary to score the win.

A few costly mistakes and an offensive line that was thrown
out of balance due to the injury of starting senior center Matt
Seals were too much for the Generals on Saturday.

W&L’s ﬁrst scoring drive ended in a blocked punt that
was run back for a Blue Jay touchdown. At the end of the
first quarter junior Marc Watson ran 24 yards to the end
zone to bring the Generals within three. Watson had 108
rushing yards on 24 carries.

As the ﬁrst halfcame to a close sophomore kicker Brad
Wiginton missed a ﬁeld goal attempt that would have cut
into the Blue Jay’s 17-7 lead.

Senior quarterback Christian Batcheller passed for 225
yards and completed 23 of 34 pass attempts. His two inter-
ceptions inside the Johns Hopkins 15 yard line proved to
be too much to overcome.

“We’re a better team but we didn’t prove that to anyone

[Saturday],” said sophomore Jeff Powell. “We outplayed it

them for most of the game but couldn’t capatalize.”
The Generals host Guilford next Saturday in their first
ODAC game of the season.

 

    

/Photo; Ed

 

Photo by Emily is"

The volleyball team showed off its best form in the W&L invitational tournament this weekend.

Reinhart, the 1997 ODAC player of the year, massed 10
kills and 10 digs. Ruckert also totaled 10 kills and dug up
six hits on the defensive.

The Generals begin to defend their ODAC title on
Wednesday when they face Lynchburg in their first ODAC

By Frances Groberg

SPOR Ts EDITOR

In a school that has been aroundfor over 250 years,
senior Christian Batcheller has shown that there can
still be ﬁrsts here at Washington and Lee.

This summer, Batcheller was selected in the 46th
round of the Major League Baseball draft to the Pitts-
burgh Pirates. By signing the contract, Batcheller be-
came the ﬁrst W&L player to be selected since the ama-
teur draft began in 1966.

“Obviously it has always been a childhood dream of
mine so I jumped at the opportunity,” said Batcheller.
“It feels great to have achieved this ”

Batcheller played for the Pirates’ Single A short sea-
son program this summer, which started on June 1 1. “I
did fairly well, considering the adjustments I had to make
from one level of competition to another,” said Batcheller.

match of the year. Lynchburg looks to be the toughest
opponent for W&L in the ODAC and the test to see how
they will hold up in the ODAC.

“They’re a strong team,” said Saulsbury. “That’s gonna
be the match.”

Batcheller drafted to Pirates

The news is not all good for the Generals, however. By ,_

signing the contract with the Pirates, Batcheller becomes
ineligible to play for the Generals’ team this spring.

“I would obviously love to play with the team this year
and ﬁnish out my career, but when one is presented with
an opportunity like this, you have to take it.”

The team will certainly miss him. Batcheller batted .275
during the 1999 season with ﬁve home runs and 18 RBI. He
won the Old Dominion Athletic Conference triple crown as
a freshman when he batted .490 with nine home runs and
45 RBI, earning First Team All-ODAC, All-South, and All-
State honors.

He also earned First Team All-ODAC and Honorable
Mention All-South accolades as a sophomore when he hit
.386 with nine home runs and 27 RBI.

Batcheller has not relinquished all athletic responsi-
bility at W&L, however. He continues to anchor the
Generals’ football team as starting quarterback for his
senior year.

WANT TO S€€ YOUR NAM€ IN PRINT?
THE. RING-TUM PI-II WANTS Your 

Business Manager (paid position)’
Advertising Director (paid position)
A Sports Writers —

call x4060 and leave a message

I’

 

Savirzgs 7325’. .:i

nline C

Save up to 40% on new textbooks.
Get them in 1-3 business days. Guaranteed.*

 

Humor Page

PAGE 6'

LAST WORD  

 

SEPTEMBER 13, 1999

MTV Video Music Awards
Go to Best and Brightest

New York -— It was another big night for corporate
America as the music industry recognized its ﬁnest and most
talented at MTV’s heavily-hyped Video Music Awards. The
big winner of the night was Ricky Martin’s PR agent Tom
Hammond, who went away with awards for best dance video
and best pop video.

“This has been a great ﬁscal year for music,” Hammond
said in his tearful acceptance speech. “I mean, there were so
many talented new press agents and marketing execs with

Sondenberg. Britney Spear’s Plastic Surgeon snagged the
honors for best new star, dedicating his award to “mindless
teenage girls and horny
guys everywhere.”

The MTV Video Mu-
sic Awards were estab-
lished in 1984 as a way
of recognizing the bright-
est talents in the indus-

videos on MTV this year, I feel honored to win.”
Backstreet Boys producer R. Richards won top honors

ISMIISI”  
News 

, *: = Shania Twain is celebrating-
I-fher one-millionth inducing of
5 pgfhasturbation after unemployed
R .‘Utica, NY resident Earl T. Potts

. ress!

 
  

‘ Impress Me Much” late last night
 , VH4-
Shanial

. The following rappers were
arrested yesterday: Ice T, Ice
Cube, Vanilla Ice, Rza and Gza.

Pop singer Eagle Eye Cherry

 stocking shelves at the local K-I
  He reports a “pretty good
chance” of landing the job, not-

” good work, Canucks!

, F :‘fPeaches En Regalia” from their
May 30, 1998 show in Boulder,
(CO. The band has been playing
C the extended song for over six-

” provisational orgy of music to the
delight of Phish fans. Currently

rhythmically snoring. Fans are
calling it “the best thing since.
hemp.” ‘ ‘ '

. ’ sic festival for women (and men
rock), -is in for a change thisfall.

Promoters have decided to allow
the Backstreet Boys and N’Sync

‘fesheryl Crow or Alanis
L  Morrisette.” ‘

   

I Led Zeppelin’s Robert Plant

;. gether again and doing what
. ﬂoor.

have officially declared that
bricks have more intelligence
and a greater capacity for inde-
pendent thought than the aver-
age pre-teen girl, pointing to the

~ records by 98°.

; C I ; Limp Bizkit deﬁed compari-
; son to Mozart yet again today!

Last Thursday Appleton,‘

. almost two years that anyone has
 ‘listened to Bush. “I must have

i “when I got this album, but thenl ,
F ’ got sick of it” noted Aakre. I

' Pink Floyd’s legal battles con-
tinue, with Roger Waters filing
 for a restraining order to keep
 David Gilmour from singing
ifonstage. Waters now claims that
"he invented singing in late 1966.
“Before I t‘* *”‘ing invented sing-
") ing and playing f***ing

 f“‘**ing said.

saw her sexy video “That Don’t »

Congratulations,

:0; recently interviewed for a job I

ing that if it falls through, he can I
s - always get a job with his uncle~’s} »
' moving company across town,  ,

.~ V Canadian superstars Sloanre‘-I
 cently celebrated their 300th f .
week ofbeing completely ignored5 *
s’ . einthe United States. Keep up the} 3

I E , Phish is still playing the  

teen months now in a wildiim- S

“‘“f“tli“é:““ib”2iiiil‘ is asleep onstage, S

Lilith Fair, the travelling mu- .

: who enjoy weak, watered-down :

on the bill, as they are all “tech- _
.; nically more feminine than

 and Jimmy Page are back to- ;

for group of the
year, narrowly

edging out nated this year.
N’Sync’s Chore— Perhaps host Chris
ographer/Hair- Rock put it best when
dresser Maurice he said “<censored>
LeFleur and and the <censored>
Kom’s image con- how many more <cen-
sultant Harvey H.

Sharpton demands white people

try. Since the real talent
is now in the boardrooms
rather than onstage, no
actual stars were nomi-

 

Chris Rock presiding
over the final shellacking
of American culture, the

sored> <censored> .” MTV Video Music Awards.

66 ’

Well, I mean, (mumble) you
know, and (mumble mumble)
rather like wot we were,
(laughs) I think (mumble), in
terms of, that is, (mumble)
(laughs), you know, wot we
did in that case there, rather,
(mumble mumble mumble),
well, (laughs) I mean, wot?
Yes, Ithink so. Quite. ,9

upon that in OK Computer.”

Radiohead’s
Thom Yorke

Translation from the original confused British rocker
speak — “I think The Bends was lyrically strong but
musically weak in parts, and I think we really improved

  

give back rap, stick to country

Washington — “We gave you jazz,
we gave you the blues, we gave you
rock n’roll —— isn’t that enough?”
shouted Rev. Al Sharpton to an as-
sembled crowd of
almost 34,000 in
front of the Lin-
coln memorial
yesterday. -

Sharpton led

the march on
Washington in
order to protest
the theft of the
rap music genre
by several up-
a n d - c o m i n g
white musicians.
Rap was pio-
neered by African-Americans in the
l980’s as a new art form which allowed
young black men and women the op-
portunity to express themselves
through music.

But with laughably talentless rap/
metal hybrid acts like Limp Bizkit, Korn
and Kid Rock topping the charts, Af-

 

Rev. Al Sharpton leading yet
another march (#3,678).

rican—American leaders are drawing the
line. “This is one musical style we’re
not going to let you screw up.”
Sharpton said.

Some pun-
dits claim that
making rap a ra-
cial issue will
only increase
the division in
our country.
“ E m i n e m
proves that rap
is not about the
color of your
skin. It’s about
lack of real mu-
sical talent.”
said Yale soci-
ologist Dr. Irving Long.

Others claim that the so-called
“whiteiﬁcation of rap” is good as it
will actually increase middle-
America’s awareness of hiphop
music.

“I mean, who had ever heard of
Robert Johnson before Led Zeppelin

started ripping him
off?” asked Dr.
K r y s t o p h
W i t k 0 w‘ s k i .
Witkowski, a Pro-
fessor of Math-
ematics at MIT, re-
cently published
his theorem that
black music + white
face = lucrative
record contract.
“Elvis knew it, Eric
Clapton knew it,
and now Limp
Bizkit knows it.” Dr.
Witkowski said.

Sharpton promises a hunger strike
if white people do not immediately stop
trying to rap (though it should be
noted that a hunger strike, by
Sharpton’s deﬁnition, means limiting
himself to only ﬁve meals a day).

“Go back to your country music
and your doo-wop,” Sharpton said.
“Stop the plundering of our musical
heritage.”

 

Marchers in
Washington
led by Al
Sharpton
display
catchy,
rhyming
homemade
signs.

Ska artists admit: “we were only kidding”

Los Angeles —— Today the music
world was stunned after every artist in
the ska genre admitted that they were
“only kidding.”

“The idea of adding a ﬁuity-sound-
ing horn section to hardcore rock n’roll
— really, that was alljust a bigjoke,”
admitted Reel Big Fish frontman Aaron
Barrett at a press conference held ear-
lier today. “I mean, come one, you
didn’t think we were serious about that
music . . . did you?”

The music genre known as Ska has
its roots in the early l960’s, when J a-
maican scientists decided to conduct

good bands existed in the sixties, so-
called Third Wave Ska currently ﬂour-
ishes in our barren musical landscape.

rthey do best: snorting lines of”:
cocaine off the hotel bathroom 

A consortium of scientists

fact that relatively few bricks own

 Wisconsin resident Brian Aakre ;. I
 put (Sixteen Stone in his" CD 
._ player, marking the first time 

listened to ‘Glycerine’ 1000 times »

instuments, bands just t‘‘‘**ing ,
I {stood onstage chattingjf Waters

an experiment to ﬁnd out just how lame
a musical style Americans would lis-
ten to if told that it’s “cool.” Though
the test was initially a failure because

Reader Poll

Who is the most worthless per-
son alive?

Eminem — 47%

Art Garfunkel — 14 %

That guy in Mighty Mighty
Bosstones who doesn’t do any-
thing except dance — 13%

That Counting Crows guy — 5 %
Anyone from Sugar Ray —— 4%

A coma patient — 3%

‘numbers may not add up to 100% as our research staff is, like,
really lazy

This week’s question:
If you only had one bullet left,

which Spice Girl would you
take out?

“I’m surprised that so many
people bought into it,” said Save
Ferris’s T-Bone Willy. “I mean, ev-

 

Reel Big Fish will be searching for reel_big
jobs after admitting that ska was “just a

real big joke.”

ery time I walked onstage with
that trombone I thought for
sure I’d be laughed out ofthe

rock concert.”

The announcement has
shocked the thousands of
lemming-like white suburban
teenagers who jumped on the
ska bandwagon. “With ska
gone, we’re now researching
many other musical options to
latch onto,” said white sub-
urban teenager spokesman
Brian O’Connell. “We’re seri-

Album reviews

Note: Since 98% of modern music is entirely unoriginal,
the editors decided that it would be easier to just review
entire genres at once. Fill in the names of the latest al-

bums/stars and create your own ﬁtting record reviews.

I" '_" "t" ‘ '-'

<ﬁll in country album> I pfsnfr f

. . 1c e 0

<ﬁll in country art1st> I Sb I

I um I ,
cover

<album> by <name> promises to be another country
music classic. On the cover is <name>, a white guy in a
cowboy hat. <na 'me>’s lyrics encompass a wide-range of
themes, including love, heartbreak, pick-up trucks, heart-
break and big shiny trucks that run over smaller trucks.
The slide guitar solos really stretch the boundaries of Ev-
erything you thought you knew about slide guitar.
<name>’s irritating country twang sounds so much like
everyone’ else’s country twang, it’s almost unbelievablel
<name> seems to answer critics who say that the country
genre has been entirely redundant for the last 50 years by
saying “what in the hell does ‘re-dundint’ mean?” and
plodding on.

. . . . t
<Fill 1n indie rock album> I gflcstie of
<Fill in indie rock group> I album I
F '  cover I

L _ __ .._ ..._

What do you get when you combine brooding, melan-
choly lyrics with guitar-driven, lo-fr grunge rock? You might
get <a|bum>, the latest release from <band>. Frontman
<name>’s thoughful, poetic lyrics provide a perfect coug-
terpoint to <name>’s effects-laden guitar barrage. Ever
since forming at <name of university> in 1993, <band> has
become one of the most respected and admired groups on
the indie circuit. Although criticized for being “too com-
merci ” after l996’s <old album> received minor play on a
few local college radio stations, <band> rebounded with
1998’s <another old album> EP, a completely inaccessible
half-hour of distortion and feedback. <alhum> is sure to
delight both new and old fans, by which I mean both of

them. ‘ _ _ _ _
paste
<ﬁll in punk rock album> I ,,,c,,,,,, of
<f1ll in punk rock group> album :
COV€I'

<album> the latest release by punk-rockers <band> is a
tasty high-energy treat that never fails to deliver the noise.
The album starts of strong with three ferociously bashed
power chords which repeat and repeat until the next song,
made up of — get this —~ three other power chords! Tracks
three and four utilize a simply one-power chord arrange-
ment to maximum effect, while the epic track ﬁve uses a'
total of —— if you can believe it —— FOUR DIFFERENT
POWER CHORDS! Allin all, <album> features about seven
different notes, making it one of the most musically com-
plex punk albums to come along in years.

,‘ ,5 ~ 3 , 3 5
Band geeks everywhere await re-
entry into the world of permanent
crushing virginity.

ously considering getting into

    

death metal, and we’re also looking
at the viability of getting back into
rap.”

Hardest hit by the announcement
will be band geeks, who have lost the
last remaining “in” musical style they
could play. “Ska was our ﬁnest hour,
our golden age,” said trumpet player

I-Uncle

Billj C©THan’s Waﬂkjl
IKio’a’ie (7?un Section  I

I by Smashing Pumpkin Billy Corgan

darker.

Coloring time

 

l.yn'c Scrambler

1) despite all my rage I am still just a rat in a ____agce
2) love is iudcesi

3) God is pmeyt, just like _ em

4) jukebox kpcuu-f hanging round the

gterosdur

Color in this black box. See if you can make it

Uncle Billy’s riddle
time

It’s bigger than a whale but takes up
no space.

It’s louder than a Marshall stack but
makes no noise.

It gets fatter every day but it never
puts on any weight.

What is it?

 

039 snouuouo Kui I.l3MSU‘€ I

mmmmmmmmmmmm-mmmmmmmmmmmmmmml

Arthur Syzsmanski, formerly of

Holmdel, NJ based ska-combo‘

SkaNaNa.

“I sure hope this neo-swing move-
ment catches on,” Syzsmanski said,
“in order to give a new generation of
band geeks the chance to lose their

virginity.”

Coming next week:

—Billy Corgan com-
poses epic 8-song-cycle
about Rogaine.

—'l'heologians use Kid
Rock's popularity as
proof that a benevolent
God does not exist.

—Co££ee-shop hipster
savagely beaten by peers
for not knowing who
Steve Malkmus is.

—Neo-Psychedelic band =

cites main inﬂuences as
Pink Floyd, Grateful
Dead and “hahaha haha
ha ha ha you know
what I’m talking about
dude.”

—'l‘hn-ee remaining
Beatles reunite for
another ill-conceived
stab at boomer nostal-
gia.

 

