 
   
 
  
   
   
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
   
 

/—‘.r: it ’
4 2:22.. 75:
:6 =55’!

'“' V. 34 

ha ~'I'.‘5

"VOLUME 102, No.15

‘FLC lends a
helping hand

“ Freshman Leadership Council

sponsors food drive to beneﬁt

, local foodbanks holiday efforts
By Michael Crittenden

NEWS EDITOR

4 A group of Washington and Lee University students
has challenged their classmates to help provide food
for the poor this Christmas.

“We’ve given the students the goal of filling an en-
tire Ryder truck with canned goods,"'said Freshman Lead-

" ership Council member Kris Pollina. “We are hoping to
get the whole school involved so we can reach that
goal.”

The food drive is being held Wednesday December 8

1 and is sponsored by the Freshman Leadership Council.
According to F LC member Kempton Presley, the great-
est challenge the group has faced is getting Washing-
ton and Lee students to make the effort to buy their own

cans.
” “A lot of students just want to give us three or four

said. “They have no trouble donating as long as they
can just pay for it. We are encouraging them to give a
little bit oftheir time so we can fill the truck.”

Some students have said the reason they just want
to donate money is that they are too busy with end of
the semester work to go buy cans.

I. ‘‘I think it would be a lot better if we could just give
money,” said junior Dillon Whisler. “As long as I do-

dollars and tell us to go buy our own cans,” Presley 9

 U112 ilttng-tum 1311

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsIrv’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

 

 
 
   

0' DEC

I

MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1999

Activities fee
raise passes

Student referendum comes
out in favor of $20 increase

By Polly Doig

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

The cost of activities at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity just went up.

Following a student referendum that took place the week
before Thanksgiving break, the student activities fee will
20 up bv $20 for the 2000-2001 academic year. The increase
will generate an additional $40,000 annually.

Nearly 73 percent of undergraduates voted in favor of
the increase, while only 42 percent of law students ap-
proved. About a quarter of the student body turned out.

When the Executive Committee went through the bud-
getaryallocation process at the beginning of the year, they
were faced with unenviable task of dividing up roughly
$270,000 among student organizations that had asked for
more than $500,000 in funding.

The EC decided that in order to better serve the needs
of student organizations, they needed a bigger budget to
work with. A raise in the student activity fee seemed the

logical way to get the money needed, so the EC decided on
a student referendum.

“We wanted to get a sense of how the student commu-
nity felt about a potential raise,” said EC president Jeff
Cook. “This is something that will really help out in future
years.

According to Cook, an annual drain on the budget is a
$50,000 payment that must be made on the Student Pavilion.

. At the EC’s request, the administration made the payment

.“:'i'C3t‘1f. \/A 3‘,-$50

10%.

  
  
   
   
   
 
  
   
   
  
  
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
 
   
  
  
  
  
   
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
   
  
  

t

I

1

l

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

A

   

    

nate something, that is what is important.”
Other students have planned to make the effort, how-
ever. Freshman Lincoln Rose said that he and some

SEE ‘FLC’ ON PAGE 2

.A haven: Lisa’s House opens doors Gettin’ Java with it

this year.

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
HOLDING THE ROCKING CHAIRS D0wN: Sophomores Brandon Herd and Eric Olsen and Josh Davis
‘99 sit on the decorated porch of Chi Psi over Christmas Weekend.

Project Horizon ﬁnally realizes dream of sheltering victims of domestic violence

By Emily Barnes

S TA FF WRITER

A week before Thanksgiving,
Project Horizon gave thanks to the
community that helped make its dream
of a safe house for domestic violence
victims become a reality.

For those who have worked on the
Lisa's House project since it was only

4 dream, it was an emotional moment.

“This has been a dream that has
been coming for so long. . . it’s been
four active years of gathering money
and planning and starting to do this.
lt’s really a dream come true for a lot of
people,” said Pamela Simpson, secre-
tary on Project Horizon’s board of di-
rectors.

Project Horizon came up with the
idea to build a shelter for victims of
domestic violence one year after the
organization’s establishment in 1983.

lhe house is named in honor of
Lisa Vincent Knick, a psychologist at
Rockbridge County High School who
was killed in 1990 by her husband

 

during a domestic dispute. Jerry Knick,

a police dfﬁcer, used his service re-
volver to shoot his wife once in the
head at close range. He was convicted
of second degree murder, and was re-
leased from prison after serving a 4 1/2
year term.

Before the Lisa’s House dedication
ceremony, Simpson said that when
president of Project Horizon’s board
of directors, Brian Richardson talks
about the success of the project and
the community members who made it
possible, he starts to cry. Richardson
himself said that when he saw the faces
of those who helped, in the crowd of
more than one hundred people, he
could not stop the tears.

“For those people who really aren‘t
directly involved to just see, right out
of the gate, that it’s a worthwhile
project, that people need help, that
there’s going to be good happening at
the end of it, and just ride into town at
their own expense. . . when l looked
out on Wednesday, that all came back
to me,” Richardson said.

Richardson’is dedication speech
was ﬁlled with thanks for the organiza-

tions and individuals involved in the
project, from those who contributed
money to those who hammered nails.
in acknowledging the number of com-
munity members he wanted to recog-
nize as contributors, Richardson held
up a local telephone directory.

He especially thanked Grigg Mullen,
the local contact for the Timber
Framer’s Guild of North America.
Mullen invited volunteers from all over
the country to help, and last March
they came to Lexington to contribute
time, skills. and even timber to the
project.

“I really do think that Grigg is more
responsible than any other single vol-
unteer for Lisa’s House,” Richardson
said. “I depended on him for an incred-
ible amount and he always came
through cheerfully.”

Richardson admitted that. although
his job as ajoumalist has taught him
to know which words to use to de-
scribe the moment, this one left him
speechless.

“The words run away and hide be-
cause thejob is too big,” he said.

BEEP, BEEP, COMING THROUGH! A decorated 18-wheeler rolls through Lexington during the annual

Christmas parade last Friday.

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

W Richardson told the crowd that
Lisa’s House completion is as much a

reﬂection of the community’s involve- '

ment in the project as it is of Project
Horizon's effort.

“This is a gift that you, the com-
munity, have given. . . to yourselves,”
he said.

Knick’s mother Myra Vincent, and
her sister-in-law, Kate Vincent, were
both present for the dedication cer-
emony. Kate Vincent, and her husband,
Clinton Vincent, are the guardians of
Lisa Knick’s children. Myra Vincent
cut the ribbon herself, making the
opening of Lisa’s House official.

“I believe that some good always
comes from each tragedy if you have
faith, and I can see that it has right
here,” Myra Vincent said.

Simpson said that Project Horizon
may move into its administrative offices
in Lisa’s House as early as Nov. 29. She
said the contractor will continue to work
on the shelter space, which should be
opened by mid-December.

The crowd closed the dedication
ceremony by singing “Bless this
House.” Pharr offered her own bless-
ing for Lisa's House, to end the thanks-
giving celebration that came a week
early for Project Horizon members.

“May we celebrate the steps we
have taken. . . may we create peace,”
she said.

Cook says that while he’s disappointed with the tum-
out, ‘‘I’m pleased with the results. Hopefully students will

feel like they’ve participated in the process.”

Dr. Horton applies for grant money to
open Wednesday night cafe at the GHQ

By Heather McDonald

STA FF WRITER

Miss your late-night coffee? A
new plan is in the works to turn the
GHQ into a coffeehouse on Wednes-
day nights.

Dr. Jane Horton, Director of Health
Services at Washington and Lee, has
applied for a mini-grant from the Vir-
ginia Alcoholic Beverage Control to
fund “Java at the GHQ.” This coffee-
house would be open on Wednesday
nights from 8 p.m. to l a.m., and serve
coffee and alcohol-free beverages and
desserts. It would be staffed entirely
by students.

Horton’s grant also proposed that
student organizations sponsor eve-
nings, either volunteering to work or
else commit to an evening. Some or-
ganizations, like the SAB and
Mindbending Productions, would pro-
vide entertainment such as student
bands or improv nights. Other possi-
bilities include karaoke, open mike
nights, comedians, and professional
acts.

“We want to try to replace what
people miss about the Ruse by giving
students a place to gather,” Horton said.

Horton said she will learn of the
ABC’s decision sometime later this

month. If the project is awarded the
grant, Horton says that “Java at the
GHQ” will begin

Horton has applied for, $3,500, the
maximum amount a school can apply
for. She said that the Student Activi-
ties Coordinator agreed to match any
funding the project receives from the
ABC, thus giving the project a pos-
sible total budget of $7,000. This
money would pay for the staff, public-
ity, coffee and supplies, entertainment,
and evaluation surveys. The surveys
would determine the dynamics of stu-
dents and non—students who go to
“Java at the GHQ,” the reasons for at-
tending, and suggestions for improv-
ing the program.

Horton says that if the program
goes well, the University Commons
that will be built in the next few years
mighthave a similar coffeehouse. ln-
put from student surveys will be used
to determine the dynamics of students
who go to the coffeehouse, and what
kinds of activities or events they
would like for the program to include.

The Virginia ABC has $25,000 set
aside for grants to colleges and uni-
versities that propose programs that
promote responsible drinking, preven-
tion for underage drinking or de-em-
phasize alcohol culture.

OPINION:

W&LIFE:

SPORTS:

LAST WORD:

@112 itttng-tum lﬂlii
December 6, 1999

Lex Christmas joy spreads

Buying textbooks on-line

Basketball: winners and losers

Apocalypse 2000 preview

PAGE 3
PAGE 4

PAGE 5

PAGE 6

WoMEN’s BASKETBALL: Senior Ansley
Miller gets defensive. See page 5.

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

 

PAGE 2

@112

Iﬂtng-tum lﬂhi

WS

DECEMBER 6, 1999

ll .'  i

. -.

Phbio by David Hanson/AssistantPhoto Editor

STILL ROCK N’ ROLL TO ME. .. SAB’s Wednesday Christmas Weekend concert featured the W&L battle of the bands.

Celtic
Connection

 

Find that s ecial holiday gift! See
our selec ion of ﬁne im orted
goods from Ireland, Scot and, 85
other Celtic lands!

jewelry ° artwork ° crystal ° china °swcaters
scarves ° throws ' books ° collectibles

Guinness items ' T-shirts ° music 'food
Free Wrappiiigl Shipping Available.

10% 0/fany tartan tie or scar/‘wit/1 this ad

Don’t go home with the same old gifts! We have

something unique for every budget.

19 W. Nelson St.
(across the street from the movie theater)
Daily 10-5:30PM 8L Sundays
through Christmas, noon-/ll’M

540-/L6/l--65/1-5
wvvw.celticconncx.com

‘FLC’ from page 1

friends are going as a group to buy the cans.

“A large group of us are going to Wal-Mart and buy-
ing a lot of cans,” Rose said. ‘‘It should be fun, and
since it's for a good cause I can spend a few dollars and
get some cans.”

The FLC is an organization made up of 1 1 freshmen
at Washington and Lee that are chosen through an ap-
plication process at the start of each year. The group's
job is to design projects and events involving their
classmates.

According to Presley, the group hopes the food drive
uniﬁes the freshman class.

“We came in as the biggest class in W&L history
and we need to do something with that strength,” Presley
said. “We are hoping this really brings us together, not
just as a class, but with the rest ofthe school as well.”

According to Pollina, students can bring their non-
perishable can donations to the University Center on
Dec. 8th.

There will be volunteers from the freshman class there
to accept the cans, as well as a Ryder truck, which was
donated for the_ day. Students will load the truck and
hopefully fill it with students’ donations. Pollina says
she thinks it will be a success.

“I know a lot of students are really excited about this.
It is a chance for Washington and Lee students to actu-
ally help out around Rockbridge County by providing
some food for the hungry. It also allows them to show
some of the Christmas spirit and give a little of them-
selves.”

 

Stuart wins Poetry prize

Dabney Stuart has been awarded the 1999 Bess Hokin
Prize from Poetry magazine. The award, one of eight annual
prizes given by Poetry, is for Stuart's poems that appeared in
the Jan. and April issues of the prestigious magazine.

Stuart has been a member of the English department
faculty at Washington and Lee University since 1965 and
currently serves as the S. Blount Mason Jr. Professor. Set-
tlers, his 17th book, was published in October by the Loui-
siana State Press.

Poetry was founded in Chicago in 19 l 2 by Harriet Mon-
roe. It has the longest uninterrupted publication of any
poetry journal in the United States.

W&L Candlelight service

Washington and Lee University's annual Christmas
Candlelight Service will be held Thursday, Dec. 9, at 8 p.m.
in Lee Chapel. The public is invited to attend.

The service of Nine Lessons and Carols, broadcast each
year from King's College, University of Cambridge, and
widely used both in England and in the U.S., is an ancient
form for corporate worship during the Christmas season.
The prayers, lessons and hymns tell the story of sacred
history from the Creation to the Incarnation.

Music for the traditional service will be provided by the
University Chamber Singers, conducted by Gordon Spice,
W&L professor of music. Timothy Gaylard, W&L profes-
sor of music, will be the organist for the service. Readers
for the service are chosen from the University community
and include Ted DeLaney, Holt Merchant, Elizabeth Oliver,
Brian Murchison, Melissa Cox, Kelly Kopcial '96, and Lewis
John '58. Thomas V. Litzenburg Jr., acting University chap-
lain, will preside over the service.

The annual Christmas Candlelight Service is sponsored
by the University Federation. Donations will be given to
Total Action Against Poverty.

Lenfest sponsors Holiday Concerts

On Dec. 7 at 7 p.m. in the Lenfest Center, the Wash-
ington and Lee University Chorus presents its annual
concert, featuring the Lexington Presbyterian Church
Handbell Choir. Also appearing will be a cappella groups
JubiLee, Southern Comfort and General Admission.

3 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, VA 24450
540-464-1501

 

“We ’re more than just hot dogs; we also serve fresh bagels
‘International Wrapps’and high protein smoothie.”

Mon. - Thurs. 8:00a.m. - 7:00p.m.
Fri. - 8:00a.m. - 9:00p.m.
Sat. -11:00a.m. - 9:00p.m.

I

At these prices, it’s too bad
we don’t sell cars.

Maybe one day we will sell cars, food and everything else you need. But right now, it's great deals on textbooks everyday. You can save up to 40%, and you'll get your books

in l to 3 days. Not that you would, but don't sweat using 0 credit card. VarsityBooks.com is l00% guaranteed secure. Try saying that about u new SUV.

SAVE UP TO 40% ON TEXTBOOKS.

  C_V,VarsityBooks.icom

 

at

DECEMBER 6, 1999

G Ellie iiiing-tum iﬂlii .
PIN ION 

Dance naked with lots o’ beer on Christmas Eve

As I walked past a church on Sunday morning, I was
blessed with hearing a jovial chorus singing “Joy to the
World”. At that moment I was considering changing my

who always offers your girlfriend his “candy cane”. That
and drinking. Lots. Of Jaegermeister.
Another thing I really love about Christmas are all of

tree out front, the fraternity houses decorated in their own

Square and Phi Delt’s A+ decorations, in the dorms, and
unique” way, and of course, the many off—campus houses

through the bottles being tipped back Christmas Week-

religion in order to partake in the fes-

tivities. The happy group put a smile
on my face and made me forget I was
horribly hungover and on my way to
a meeting.

  
  

V, rch Balderdash
 Michael Crittenden 01

the Christmas lights. As I was walk-
ing to my car from dinner last night
with my date down Main St. in Lex
Vegas, it struck me how beautiful the

The spirit of Christmas is one that’s
irreplaceable. It makes me want to table dance and sing “O
Christmas Tree” while wearing reindeer antlers. Uh . . . in fact,
I have to admit that this has actually happened to me. Fre-
quently. Not that there’s anything wrong with that . . .
Christmas reminds me of everything that’s good in the
world, friendship, presents, togethemess, drunk Uncle Ron

Heather’s guide
to beating ﬁnals

Folks — I have news for you: There’ s one week left in
fall term. It’s time to ﬂip the switch from chill mode to “uh-
oh” mode. Those papers that are due have no chance of
extension and you can only wait so long to take those
finals. The alarm clock’s going off, but there’s no snooze
button to buy you more time.

So, to help you out with these last two weeks, I’ve com-
piled a list of helpful (procrastination) tips. If they don’t

I work—don’t blame me, I’m just the copy editor.

First things ﬁrst: Never study in your own room. Go to
the library. During ﬁnals, the library is ﬁlled with people
who never walked into the library and before now have
declared residency in Leybum. While spending twelve hours
in the library taking study breaks from study-breaking will
not help you
pass those ﬁ-
nals, you will
deﬁnitely make
new friends
and keep in
touch with the old. I manage to run into everyone I’ve ever
known whenever I go into the library.

If you’re studying in the library, you can’t have food,
right? WRONG.Well, you’re not supposed to, but that’s
what you’re pockets are for. Stash those munchies in the
coat pockets and bring some napkins so you don’t taint
the book pages with potato chip grease. You can’t really
study without proper amounts of food, because there is
scientiﬁc proof that ample amounts of processed cheese
products increases blood ﬂow to the brain and therefore
makes you smarter. Well. Maybe.

If you have moral issues with breaking the almighty law

of Leybum, you should just go to the Co-op and chill with
the rest of the Co-op rats (ahem). On a very serious note,
the Co-op is the most wonderful place in the world during
ﬁnals. They have free coffee and soda after 6 p.m. during
ﬁnals week. This is the greatest idea ever invented, be-
cause it allows me to chug coffee in ridiculously danger-
ous amounts thereby wrecking my nervous system.
1 If you’re not hungry but still need a study break, you
can always clean your room. No really, cleaning your room
is extremely carthartic when your mind is foggy. Plus by
the time you’re starting to have nightmares on Dante and
marketing analysis, cleaning your room is a lot more fun
than studying and seems much more productive than play-
ing a tenth round of Bond on Nintendo.

Yeah, ﬁnals suck. Thank goodness that there are a mil-
lion and one ways to have fun with them. However, the
only way to really get through them is to study.

But hey, only one more temi before Spring Term!

Ellie ﬂing-tum lﬁlii

Polly Doig

Michael Crittenden
Stephanie Bianco
Ginger Phillips
Elianna Marziani
Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin
Heather McDonald
Emily Barnes

Coffee Talk
Heather McDonald_‘01

 

Executive Editor
News Editor
Opinions Editor
W&Life Editors

Sports Editor
Last Word Editor
Copy Editor
Photo Editor

Assistant Photb Editor Lisa Lin
Dave Hanson
Layout Editor Neal Willetts

Advertising Director Frances Groberg

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Ofﬁce: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wiu.edu
http://wIu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

   
  

lights really are. Yeah it sounds sappy,
but I know I am not the only one who
got excited as a kid when all ofthe Christmas lights went
up around town. I remember back in Lewiston this one
house that would start decorating weeks, no months, ahead
of any other house in town so that they could be the best.

It’s this feeling of Christmas warmth that comes to me
as I sit here writing. Lee House lit up with the Christmas

whose owners take the time to decorate. The winner this
year has to be Otterville on Randolph St. Not only does it
have over 5,000 lights, a tree on the roof, toy soldiers, a
crazy amount of candy canes (once they get them back
from Munster and Penthouse), and other holiday cheer,
but you can also see the damn thing from the Colonnade.
So kudos to the Otterville girls Alexis, Jean, Carly, Tara,
and Steph for kicking ass and taking names as always.
Now, back to the story. The thing I love about Christ-
mas is that it isn’t just a day of the year, but it is a season.
A sense of being that warms the heart like a nice shot of
Booker’s bourbon. The Christmas spirit infects the soul

end. You can feel it in the atmosphere around campus (de-
spite those damn, ****ing ﬁnal things, that’s how they get
you), with people around campus with a gleam in their
eyes. People are happy, having fun Christmas Weekend
(it’s that egg-nog that gets you, I swear). ’

Once again, back to the story. Everyone should enjoy
the pervasive Christmas spirit that infects the campus. Ei-
ther that, or grab a bottle of good bourbon and find the
Christmas spirit. Live, love, and be with friends.Give some-
one a hug, be friendly, and stand under the mistletoe with
your date (even if she doesn’t realize it). Oh yeah, and stop
by I 17 Randolph street and check out the lights. It’s funny,

       

and fills the mind, wafting across the Hill, through Red

 ‘“ iiisiiiili

. in

really. No really, it’s funny.

.-A c

      

»%}:‘v‘~:«.?‘&«

   

elebrate,” Carly ‘Blakelock”said.p 9 I

near or JdY:. This glowing rotgeoiigns up aim. Rgfnao1ph.:s; , 
ive there, spent niaiiyliours decorating«,their;homfe:fcal '  _
4 Mth tinsel andliights, and morethan 5,000 lights I   

 
  
 

» g 3 pt.» « jty:saa;a?;.:s°a..":7;¢"aa;a  .

  

Y2K coming: Enjoy your New Year’s celebration I

I worked at a newspaper over the summer, and being a
mere 18-year-old intern, I covered “Town Meeting to Dis-
cuss Implementation of New Postage Stamp,” and “Start-
ing Kindergarten: Traumatizing or Educational?” So
when I was assigned to cover a forum addressing the
“problems” of Y2K, I expected the usual group of 60-
year-old women biding time before Matlock started, ve-
hemently protesting an issue that would never mani-
fest itself in reality. Never did I entertain the notion that I
would be entering Rockland County’s

their pointless jobs: “Now here is a man who needs NO
introduction... James Raven Madd, head of the Y2K commit-
tee working to prevent household appliance breakdown!”
Their speeches were akin to Jeff Cook’s introduction to the
honor code in Lee Chapel... dramatic dissertations petrifying
everyone to the point where they wouldn’t sneeze or shift
positions in their seat for fear of breaking the silence. The
only difference between Lee Chapel and Rockland
County’s Y2K Forum was that while J eff warned against
being thrown out of school, these

official headquarters of meaningless
ignorance and paranoia.

My first mistake was signing 

,   Northetiiersﬁrposure
" Kris Pollina ’05

ofﬁcials advised (I kid you not)
to buy “at least a three months
supply of feminine hygiene prod-

the sign in sheet. Two huge secu-

rity guards manned the entrance of the forum, leaving me
wondering what I had gotten myself into and wondering
ifthis was a cult planning the assassination ofthe presi-
dent. I wasn’t permitted to settle into a comfortable
folding chair until I wrote_down my name, address, e-
mail address, phone number, social security, pets’ names,
parents’ names, brand oftoothpaste...I am still receiv-
ing notices of Y2K forums to this day.

Pen behind my ear, steno pad on my arm, I listened
to guest speaker after guest speaker instill fear into the
hearts of everyone, all nervously wringing their hands,
looking like a herd of deer caught in headlights. I marveled at
how each “official” had adopted their own euphemisms for

TALKback

ucts,” because “you’d hate to be
without them if the factories happened to shut down.”
That in itself was bad enough. My notes were virtually
illegible, scrawled phrases of “contingency plans” and
“inﬂux of public concern.” I dreaded getting arbitrary
quotes from attendees, but I cornered a few paranoid an-
droids alter the meeting. This line of questioning only yielded
incoherent rambling infused with utter fear: “It is our re-
sponsibility as conscientious citizens to monitor the single
biggest celebration of the century!” Probably the funniest
aspect of the evening was how each official kept mentioning
how Rockland County received the highest rating in “Y2K
preparedness.”
The entire invasion of Y2K fear is just a mere manifes-

 

“Grab a few beers and hang out
with friends. . .that’s the plan.”
—Joel Ditetzman ’02

“Anything casual — rugby shirts,
jeans, and ascics. . .No Biggie!”
-Evan Oremland ’03

have a great beach party.”
-Ibraiz Imani ‘O3

“I hope to go back to Bombay and

tation of boredom. Why worry about my politics ﬁnal when
I can muse about New Year’s Eve? And the importance of
my English paper dwarfs in comparison to the threat of my
refrigerator dying. Yes, our GPA’s may falter in our Y2K
anxieties, but at least I’ll have a reliable stock of food
lest I suffer late night munchies. Are we really that
starved for something to worry about that we need to
lose sleep over what promises to be the biggest party
ofthe century? At least I know I can rely on W&L stu-
dents, if not the rest of the world, to forego the Y2K
apprehensions and spend more time concentrating on
the social implications ofa New Year’s Eve party wel-
coming us into a new millennium.

 

Please grow one testicle,
then work on the other.

)}

—— Frustrated Phi editor

“I want to see my mom in Jamaica
and taste some of her fine cooking.’
—Camille Mwaisela ’02

7

 

PAGE 4

DECEMBER 6, 1999

Signature Student
(Sam Bazzygo/z ‘02

By Elianna Marziani
F EA TURES EDITOR

What kind of a man would say
that, given the chance to wipe out
anything in the world, he would
choose alarm clocks? Meet sopho-
more Sam Langholz, one of the

from 1996- 1 997. This politically ac-
tive student’s eventual career
plans?

“I don’t really know," he said.
“At this point I’m enjoying my time
here at W&L and hoping that in-
spiration will come to me!”

W&L student body’s busiest
members. Langholz is unde-
clared in his major, but likely
to choose politics. He is the
Sigma Nu house manager and
alumni chair, as well as the
chairman of College Republi-
cans, the founding chairman of
the Washington and Lee Uni-
versity Model Congress, and
the Mock Convention’s Iowa ‘
chairman.

Think you understand his
hatred of alarm clocks? Add in
his being a member of the Stu-
dent Recruitment Committee,
University Chamber Singers,
and General Admission, a work
study student in the Duchossois
Tennis Center, as well as a highly
academically ranked student, and
the picture becomes even clearer!
His fetish against alarm clocks has
not stopped him from committing to
be a dorm counselor next year, how-
ever.

Langholz is a very proud native
of Clear Lake, Iowa —— incidentally,
one of only two Iowans at W&L.

This summer he worked for the
Clear Lake Chamber of Commerce,
promoting tourism in the business
community. Perhaps more interest-
ingly to those who have caught the
Mock Con fever, Langholz served
as a volunteer for Governor George
W. Bush’s presidential campaign
during the Iowa Straw Poll.

“I was very impressed with the
governor,” he said. “He came to my
hometown of Clear Lake. . . what was
really neat was that he spoke for 20
minutes and then took an hour and
a half to speak with every person 
he was very personable and charis-
matic and a great person to work
for.”

Langholz served as a captain of
a bus, responsible for gathering up
and transporting people to and from
the poll to vote.

Sam is most proud of having
been a congressional page and
working for Speaker Newt Gingrich

    

Photo courtesywof tlie_Ci17yx

In his rare spare time, he enjoys
playing the violin, something he
has done since he was two-and-a-
half.

Q: What is your favorite cartoon
character?

A: I’m a big fan of Scooby Doo,
because Scooby Doo can solve any
problem and save the day.

Q: What would you do if you
won the lottery?

A: I’d give some to George Bush
and save the rest for a rainy day.

Q: What is the best Halloween
costume you ever had?

A: I was an Iowan scarecrow
when I was 4 years old. My mommy
made it for me. It was really itchy.

Q: What is your best/funniest
Christmas memory?

A: When I was 5 years old and
my little brother had just been born,
I was convinced that I had ﬁgured
it all out. I knew that there wasn’t a
Santa Claus. . . because I knew that
really there was this group of people
that ﬂew around in the sky and
dropped the presents off for your
parents to give you . . .and they
coordinated all the guys in the red
suits to.be Santas in all the mall. . . I
promised my parents that I wouldn’t
tell my little brother.

Q: And when did you finally find
out that your theory wasn’t true?

A: What are you talking
about?

Buy textbooks, don’t

By Ginger Phillips

F EA TURES EDITOR

A new semester is rapidly approach-
ing Washington and Lee University,
which means it is once again time to
take a trip to the bookstore.

The book-buying experience, how-
ever, can often be a very unpleasant
one when a student realizes he has just
paid $60 for a thin, paperback book. Due
to this cost, many W&L students are
buying their textbooks online.

“I think buying textbooks online is
a great alternative to the high prices of
the W&L Bookstore,” junior Deena
Johnson said. “It seems that you can
rarely find used history books in the
bookstore, and as a history major who
has to buy a lot of books, it is cheaper
for me to get a discount by buying the
books I need over the intemet.”

Two of the largest online college
bookstores are www.ecarnpus.com and
www.varsitybooks.com. The
eca.rnpus.com site claims to be “The
globe’s largest college bookstore with
over three million items.”

Online textbook sellers such as

these usually have the course reading 9

lists from universities all over the na-
tion. Varsitybooks.com, for example,
allows a student to simply click on a
state or region in order to access a vari-
ety of college reading lists.
BecauseofW&L’ssmallsize, itsiead-
ing lists are often excluded in such lists.
In this case students can simply obtain
their appropriate course syllabi and
search the sites by book title, author or
ISBN number to find what they need.
The advantage of online shopping

All you need for Christ

By Ashley Hodgson

STAFF WRITER

 

Upcomingevents

Monday, Dec. 6

Tuesday, Dec. 7‘

7 :00 p.m. Holiday Choral Concert. Keller Theatre. » T?

9:00 pm. “BiloxiBlues”.
Wednesday, Dec. 8

7 S-6:30 p.m. Christmas Dinner. Evans Dining Hall. 
5:00 pm. Basketbal1(W)vs.CatholieUniyeisity. 
7:00 p.m. Basketball(M)vs.Emory&Henty. , 0 '‘
7:00 pm. Swimming(W)vs.SweetBriar. ,  I K V
7:30 p.ni. Contact Lecture. Dr.  0‘ ‘

economist. Lee Chapel. A

Thursday, Dec. 9

8:00 p.m. 

Saturday, Dec. 11

2:00 pm. Undergrad exams begin.  , 

8:00 pm. FAIRConcei-t. “A RockbridgeC ' as,”/. .
Rockbridge Choral Society and the Rockbridge ‘
Youth Chorale with chamber orchestra and

soloists. Jackson Memorial

Monday, Dec. 13 --Friday, Dec.i1i7}?

9:00 a.m., Undergrad exams.

Womenfs rush begins Tuesday, a
Jan. 42%, and c/asses resume :
on Wednesday, Jan. 52%.

Happy: Holidays from the Phil _;

8 :00 pm. “Biloxi Blues” by Neil Simon. Directedbyi I
Holly Estes. Johnson Theatre. ‘

 
      

     
  

Hall.

  

Christmas is here again, as is the
mad rush to buy Christmas presents
for family and friends — a job that,
luckily, is easy to do in a town like
Lexington.

“Here there are little shops that
kind of have knick-knacky things,”
said freshman Mary Carol Mazza. “If
you buy a sweater here, it’s probably
going to be hand knitted.”

Candles, arts and crafts items, pic-
ture frames, chocolates and scents are
in abundance in the many gift shops
Lexington has to offer. For Mom, stu-
dents often buy unique cookbooks,
Christmas ornaments or scented
candles.

Although Lexington offers lots of
shopping for women’ s gifts, creative stu-
dents can ﬁnd presents for everyone.

Students generally feel that Dad is
more difficult to shop for in Lexing-
ton, but some students get clever and
buy him hand-painted book-ends,

rafter this, the corporate ladder

is that many sites offer students signiﬁ-
cant discounts on textbooks, sometimes
up to 50 percent. It is also relatively easy
to make money by selling unwanted text-
books over the Internet and most elec-
tronic book sellers maintain buyback
and auction options.

“The more used books we have on
our site, the more opportunities you
have to save money. Period,” claims the
ecampus.com website.

Ordering online is also extremely safe
according to online bookstores, so stu-
dents can feel secure submitting their
credit card numbers over the Internet.

Two W&L students have devel-
oped what they believe may be an even
better alternative than the currently ex-
isting online bookstores. Seniors Will-
iam Karmer and Steven Klotz have de-
veloped a type of online bookstore
based on the speciﬁc needs of W&L
students.

“The purpose of the site is to give
students a chance to buy and sell books
to each other and get a better deal than
if they were to do the same thing in the
bookstore or through one of the book
buyback companies that come to town,”
Kanner said.

The site, known as RICE, was devel-
oped aﬁer Kanner and Klotz discovered
that Rice University maintains a site that
serves a similar fimction. Students use
their name and a password of their
choosing to access the site, found at
http://asp.wlu.edu/rice and soon to be
part of the W&L home page.

RICE is a trading post for textbooks
where a student can list the name, con-
dition and asking price for a book that
he would like to sell.

genuine “Shenandoah Valley” Bar-B-
Q sauce, hiking boots, or W&L
shotglasses.

W&L memorabilia makes a good
gift for any family member, of course.
“This is my ﬁrst year here and I
thought that buying gifts here would
be a neat thing to do for my family,”
said freshman Susan Slopek, who
bought each family member a W&L t-
shirt.

For friends, Y2K memorabilia is
popular this year. With the year 2000
coming up, calendars, planners, cof-
fee table books and party favors have
been selling more quickly than in past
Christmas seasons.

“Joumals are big this year,” said
Lucia Owens, owner of Sunday’s Child.
“That could be part of the millennium
idea. People are realizing they have a
new century to work on their hopes
and dreams.”

Sunday’s Child, Crossroads, and
Hallmark are popular places to buy less
expensive gifts for friends.

“I think many students shop at

 

“It is a tip off
service where in-
terested students
can use the con-
tact information
supplied by the
person selling the
book to get in
touch with that
person to negoti-
ate prices or buy,”
Kariner said.

Despite the
growing popular-
ity of online shop-
ping fortexlbooks,
there are still
many in the W&L
community who
believe that the
Bookstore is the
best way to shop.

“The best ad-
vantage to shop-
ping in the book-
store is that a stu-
dent can just walk
in and pick the
books off of a
shelf instead of
waiting for the books to come in the
mail,” Brenda Reese of the W&L Book-
store said. “The price of the book is
about the same in the bookstore aﬁer
the student pays for the postage and
handling of books ordered online.”

“Most other bookstores in the state
mark up their books more than we do,”
Reese continued. “Of course we are try-
ing to break even, but we are not trying
to make money off of the students. We
work as a service to students.”

3

‘X

3

E

I J

A

T:
E.‘
‘:1
C
(I;

Hallmark mostly '
because it has a
large number of
gifts for under
$15,” said Donna
Tyree,managerof
the local Hall-
mark. “We see a
lot of people
shopping for Se-
cret Santas.”
The many
bookstores in
town are also
good places to
ﬁnd gifts for any
age group.
“People usu-
ally get The New
York Times Best
Sellers as gifts
because they’re
highly recom-
mended,” Anna-
Lisa Fitzgerald,
The Best Seller’s manager, pointed out.
Lexington may be small, but there

   

will be a piece of

[cakel

in Army ROTC, you'll get to do stuff that'll challenge you, both physically and mentally. in the
process, you'll develop skills you can use in your career, like thinking on your feet, making smart
decisions, taking charge. Talk to your Army ROTC representative. You'll find there's nothing like

a little climbing to help prepare you for getting to the top.

ARMY ROTC Unlike any other college course you can take.

mas in

  

go into debt

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

The University Bookstore is preparing for the
upcoming semester by ordering and shelving
thousands of textbooks.

Students can also be assured that
the Bookstore will always have the
books they need, since professors are
required to summit their course require-
ments to the bookstore in advance.
W&L students also have the beloved
advantage of charging their books
home when they buy in the Bookstore.

Buying and trading online may not
always save a student money, but the
possibility of discounts and other ad-
vantages make it worth checking out.

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

Susan Woodward ’03 and Laura Wilson ’03
begin their holiday shopping at Pumpkinseeds.

is plenty available to ﬁnish your
Christmas shopping.

 

 

   

 

DECEMBER 6, 1999

 

SE6 “RT s

PAGE 5

Women’s basketball lives up to
pre-season hype, opens season 3-1

By Robert Turner

STA FF WRITER

Washington and Lee’s Women’s basketball team, which
has been touted as possibly the best in W&L history, have
opened their season in impressive fashion. After dropping a
close battle to Wellesley, the Generals eamed convincing
victories over Randolph-Macon and Lynchburg and then a
close win over Eastern Mennonite on Friday.

The Generals return ten of thirteen letter winners, four of
whom started for the Generals last season. That team last
season made it to the ODAC semifinals for the first time in
school history.

Leading the team on and off the court in the 1999-2000
season will be senior co-captains and three year starters Jes-
sica Morton and Ansley Miller. Morton and Miller will share
duty in the Generals’ backcoiirt. Also returing is sophomore
Jessica Mentz, last year’s leading scorer and ODAC player
of the year. Mentz will play in the post along with classmates
Megan Babst and Leslie Fischbeck. Sophomore guards Sa-
rah Schmidt and Alison Kudlacik are also back from last year’s
team which won a school record thirteen games.

“Aﬁer completing last season on a strong note, all of our
expectations are high. With the return of many experienced
players, as well as the addition of new talent, we possess a
wealth of offensive weapons. This group [is] dedicated, en-
thusiastic, and eager to win,” head coach Terri Dadio Campbell
said.

The Generals opened their season by traveling to the
Wellesley Invitational Tournament on Nov. 20. Though they
were defeated in the opening round 71-53 by host Wellesley,
they did put up an impressive performance. W&L led early in
the game, but the Blue ralled to a 34-27 halftime lead that they
would not relinquish. The Generals were led by Morton and
Mentz, who each finished the game with fourteen points.

In the consolation game, the Generals bounced back fro

Still looking for
win number one

By Mike Weil

S TA FF WRITER

The Washington‘ and Lee Generals men’s basketball

team’ entered the*§a;’a§orrwrth“prurnrse:anew/coacn,~and'a"

new philosophy.w"3’éf‘f Lafave now owns the reigns of the
squad after the shocking departure of head coach Kevin
Moore.

Along with him comes a new approach to the game
involving an offense with much more motion and a focus
on the fundamentals. This includes reducing turnovers,
playing tougher defense, and rebounding, in order to make
up for the lack of size on the team.

The Generals return some key upperclassmen and seven
freshmen for this year’s campaign. six-foot—six seniors Scott
Hudson and Brian Ricketts lead the team’s frontcourt.
Hudson started 17 games last season and averaged 6.8
points and 4.3 boards. Ricketts started nine games last
season and averaged 4.0 points and 3.5 boards.

The wing positions return juniors Will Ballard and Chad
Braley, along with sophomores Bob Bustamante and
Quincy Springs. They all showed capabilities of being
outside threats last year. Senior Walt Plyler runs the point
guard position; he is now fifth all-time at W&L with 231
assists. Freshmen forwards Ryan Small and Jake McAlister
are promising prospects this year along with freshman
guard Will Cotter.

Thus far this new offensive strategy has not seemed to
work, as the Generals have gotten off to an 0-4 start, 0-2 in
the ODAC. However, one of these losses came at the hands
of Division I Harvard in which the game was within reach
until midway through the second half. Harvard closed out
the game with a score of 43-72. Another came at the hands

Swimming tops
R-MWC 116-60

Women improve record to 5-2

Washington and Lee's women's swimming team claimed
victories in seven of nine individual races en route to a
1 16-60 triumph over Randolph-Macon Woman’s College
on Wednesday night in Lexington, Va.

The Generals started the meet with a win in the 200-yard
medley relay in a time of 2:0 1 .44. They then proceeded to
take the first seven individual events before the Wildcats
claimed a win. No swimmer for W&L tallied more than one
victory on the day. ‘

The seven individual winners for W&L were freshman
Michelle Moore in the 1000-yard freestyle (l2:23.87), jun-
ior Katie Kennedy in the 200-yard freestyle (2205.02), sopho-
more Caitlin FitzRandolph in the 50-yard freestyle (26.79),
freshman Katie Kolle in the 200-yard IM (2225.64), fresh-
man Blair Huffman in the 200-yard butterﬂy (2: 19.48), fresh-
man Kelli Austin in the 100-yard freestyle (57.06), and se-
nior Lauren Beckenhauer in the 200-yard backstroke
(2:25.l7).

Michelle Proses claimed both individual victories for
the Wildcats, winning the 500-yard freestyle (6224.07) and
the 200-yard breaststroke (3224.90). RMWC also won the
200-yard freestyle relay in a time of 1:58.90.

With the win, W&L improves to 5-2 on the season,
while the Wildcats fall to 1-4. The Generals return to the
pool on December 8th, when they host ODAC member
Sweet Briar College at 7:00 pm.

—Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

their loss to win over the Wildcats of Randolph-Macon 60-
49. W&L was led by sophomore guard Carter Thomas’ ca-
reer high seventeen points. Babst also had a good showing,
scoring eleven points to go along with her 19 rebounds,
while Schmidt chipped in twelve points.

W&L stayed on a roll in their home opener on Wednes-
day defeating Lynchburg College for a vital ODAC victory.
The Generals, leading 26-15, looked poised to break the game
open late in the first half before the Hornets tood advantage
of W&L’s foul troubles to score twelve unanswered points.

The Generals, though, regained their composure and re-
gained the lead 36-33 at intermission. From then on, the
W&L cruised through the second half to a 76-59 victory.
Babst (14 points and 14 rebounds) and Mentz (1 1 points and
12 rebounds) posted double-doubles for the Generals. That
was Babst’s second straignt double-double, who also threw
up a school record six blocks.

Friday’ 5 matchup against EMU was a tougher contest for
the Generals. Mentz was benched ten minutes inot the game
with sprained ancle. Babst picked up the slack with a perfor-
mance nothing short of amazing. Babst scored another
double-double with 28 points and 21 rebounds.

Mentz remains optimistic about her chances to get in
tomoirow’s game against number one ranked Bridgewater
and the team’s outlook on the season.

“I really want to play and the ancle is healing quickly.
Bridgewater is beatable. Our expectations are very high. We
have the ability to beat everyone in the converence and I
think we’ll do it,” she said.

All in all, it was an impressive opening of the season for
the Generals. With this group of talent many more records
should fall and the team’s foundation for a strong basketball
presence will be further built upon. Judging from the particu-
larly deep sophomore class, this trend should continue for
several more years.

-—Additi

al repor ' 2 bv Steele Cooper

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

WORKING our THE KINKS: Senior Walt Plyer and the Generals focus on the basics in Friday’s practice.

of Hampden Sydney who are now ranked second in the
nation for Division III, 50-82. ~

The other two came in tight contests with Middlebury
(69-72) and ODAC foe Bridgewater (71-78). The latest loss
to Hampden Sydney was highlighted by Bustamante and
freshman guard Toussaint Crawford who each tallied 10
points.

Sophomore Quincy Springs offered insight to the Gen-
erals slow start. “We have started our season with four
straight away games, two of which were our opponents
home openers. We’re still trying to learn how each other
play, and it’s still early in the season. We’re still adjusting
to each other.”

    
  

 ’ S I 

 

In regard to the new motion offense applied by Lafave,
Springs says “the motion offense is far superior to what
we had last year. We have so many guards on our team
that it gives us the opportunity to exploit our strengths.”

The early losses have also prompted the Generals to
fortify their basics in proctices. “We’re working on our
fundamentals after this. We’re strengthening our defen-
sive principles and trying to establish more continuity on
offense,” said Hudson.

The Generals open their home schedule this Wednes-
day against Emory and Henry, tipoff at 7200 p.m. “This
game will be a very important one for us because we need
to get a win before heading into the break,” said Hudson.

® TOYOTA

T0"0T/\-101

MORE VALUE/LE55 MONEY
INTRODUCING THEALLNEW

TOYOWR

Starinuner $10,000 —- About $12,000 well equipped.

THERE’5 AN ECHO OUT THERE! Great looke on the outeiole, great room on the ineicle.
Cruise the highway at 40 Mi’G’...very thrifty. Power? Plenty! lt’e a 1.5 liter hi~teoh
16 valve DOCH engine with variable valve tirning (new) that kicke out 105 horsepower
any time you want it. Anal heat of all, Echo etarte atjuet $9,995?

‘ ,’vV"i"’:-lV'*2”=iljh.c:e» P’ am thru Toyota Motor Creolit helpe those with limited
credit hietory buy or leaee a new Echo or Celioa. See olealer for eletaile.

 TOYQTA "?.°‘ "°‘.'..‘l.‘i?'._.‘.*.§’.5*7?’ “°Y WWWQBWOVOW -0001

'l3l’:\ estiiiialctl 32/39 City/llvuy auloinalic, 31/-ll (:ll)'/ll\V‘,' m.mu.il 'l$.ise MSRI’ L'X('lllLllllg trarispmialmn, tux, lugs and regionally required cquipmcnl

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor I
Senior Ansley Miller and sophomore Jessica Mentz fortify the defence for the Generals on Friday 1
night against Eastern Mennonite University. Mentz was injured only ten minutes into the contest 
but still hopes to play when the Generals face ODAC top-ranked Bridgewater College tonight. 3

Volleyball legend

By Sarah Schmidt

STAFF WRITER

Nancy Reinhart, a senior outside hitter for the Wash— .
ington and Lee volleyball team from Louisville, Ken-J
tucky, finished her illustrious career with another first}
for W&L volleyball. This time, it was her effort offthe

court as well as on that brought her the honor.

" " Sherecently earned a selection tothe GTE Academic
All-District III Volleyball First Team. Her selection au-
tomatically qualiﬁes her for consideration for the Aca-.

demic All-American team.

Reinhart is the only W&L volleyball player to be:

awarded a place on the First Team. A political science

and journalism major, Reinhart has set new standards‘
for W&L volleyball. She helped lead the team to its first‘
ever trip to the NCAA national tournament this fall in

Atlanta and its third straight ODAC tournament cham-
pionship.
The all-time leader in both kills and digs in W&L

history, Reinhart also owns 10 single-game, single—sea-»
son, and career records at W&L. She finished her se-
nior season with a remarkable total of320 kills, 429 digs,

and 37 aces.

The ODAC has definitely felt Reinhart’s presence.

She was named to the All-ODAC First Team three times,
earning Player of the Year honors her sophomore sea-
son.

In addition, she is the all-time leader in kills and digs
in ODAC history. She was also named to the ODAC
tournament First Team en route to her third straight
ODAC title.

Reinhart’s greatest thrill, however, has nothing to
do with personal records. Capping her stellar career
with a trip to nationals was the biggest thrill for this
standout athlete. “I amjust glad we had a great season.
I’m really happy with the team’s success,” Reinhart said.

ECHO

 

 
 

 

M
9 .
522
E33
EES
PAGE6 582

volume 34, issue 12 inside,
—hoW to tell
if your child
is faking an
orgasm to
avoid school
—brand new
all-ﬂogging
diet

«O-at

.-=2?»  I"

9 CR SADE-

F0 SLIM WA] LINES!

~ FRO'NI‘GUTl'ENBERG:I'O 

OPRAH’S Q,  on CLUB: THE
HISTORY o ,_TH;£ PRINTED

UPDATED LIST or
MICK CTAGGER s
VENEREAL DISEASES

DECEMBER 6, 1999

Time Magazine’s pick for Man of the Century has been much in the news lately. They chose a man who was equal parts statesman, philosopher, inventor and artist — I am talking of course
about Carrot Top. But what about the rest of the newsrack? Several prominent publications have chosen their own men/women of the year, century and millenium. Here are a few-’ ,

EXCLUSIVE INTE R‘/IEW WITH
KEITH RICHARDS’ REMAIN-
ING ORGANS!

Cor
blimeyl
Ron
Wood!

Vol. 26
Issue 13
price: $4.95

our price
$0.95

Why pay more
for the truth?

Seoul! of the centurv!

Popular
Science

price: $3.95

special
collector’s
edition

' '  ‘     " =   10 top psychics agree:
.s_e_,_,utgirr*e’E‘‘ai 1,  OJ killed
‘EA-7° “$30    J 0nBene

El‘iz:cihetlg_fI,_l-— prim’-é,_’"Vi ‘“    W 
...f‘.”.Lll"*9l! V10“mo;ré'        ~

JOOT Of

ﬁr

the man of
the century
Irving C.
Fishbaum.
inventor of
the slide rule

REBEL OITHOOT

FT POCKET

M36159 7‘g“os1ii4'
IISIISILIIYVITU‘ IIII III ._

polyps E2000 ptrrt/7i

According to Newsweek, 18% of Americans believe
that the Apocalypse, the Biblical end-battle between good
and evil, will happen in their lifetime. That’s right, nearly
ONE OUT OF EVERY FIVE of us believe that this great

guide. We’ve analyzed some of the major players in the
forces of good and evil, and listed their respective strenghts
and weaknesses. Decide for yourself which side to root
for/put money on. And if we survive till 2005. . .just forget

Let’s put common sense aside for a moment and as-
sume that this is true. In fact, let’s assume (as many of them
do) that it’s going to happen sometime next year. How are
things looking going into the big ﬁght?

Amtrak train we call planet Earth is just about to derail. Below, we offer you our Year 2000 Apocalypse battle this, OK?
Kevin Smith 7 lerry Falwell
writer/director of blasphemous movie W  S uber-preacher “
“Dogma” Sample quote: Thank
Sample quote: “Fingercuffs.” (see *‘Chas- I 6%” God this Vile and Satanic Sys-
ing Amy») tem [homosexuality] will one

day be utterly annihilated and
there‘ll be a celebration in
heaven."

Minions

Strengths: Hails from New Jersey, so you
can be sure he knows how to use a gun.

 

Weaknesses: St th Very limber
. . _ . _ reng s:
 Siimlqfﬁlce Cannlbal Corpse (able to put own foot in mouth over and over!)
a l I wn - '
ty REAL sh°Ck'mckerS ("nil/‘e Weaknesses: Logic, reason, compassion — basically

minutes of movie
dialogue without
resorting to the f-
word.

made-for-MTV media poseur
Marilyn Manson)

Sample quote: “Strangula-
tion caused her ‘death / Just like
all the others / Raped before
and after death / Stripped, na-
ked, tortured.”

Strengths: You certainly
can’t accuse them of watering
down their lyrics for radio play.

Weaknesses: You certainly

everything that separates us from the animals.

Pat Robertson

"700 CIub"f0under

Sample quote: "You're supposed
to be nice to the Episcopalians and
the Presbyterians and the Method-
ists and this, that, and the other thing.
Nonsense. I don't have to be nice to
the spirit of the Antichrist.”

Strengths: W&L alum, so he’s at

John Hagee
televangelivcal minister to scores of big-
haired Southern women and writer of apoc-

ryphal Bible interpretations
Sample quote: “To retire the remaining debt
by 2000 will require 35 million dollars.‘I know
we can do it, and here’s how" If

 2000 people will pledge to give
$2,000 by the year 2000. we will
4'33"" have our Millennium

 

Jesse “the body” Ventura
anti-religious wrestler-turned-politician
Sample quote:
“Win ifyou can, lose
if you must, but al-

 
 

   

 

waést rC:::atihs_ The can’t accuse them ofhaving any VII‘ " Mllacle-ll least honorable.
g ' redeeming value whatsoever. ‘ Stell8lll53 Eating, Weak-
power , of the S€If-I'lgIll€OUS- nessesg The
governor s office. Hess‘ eating majority of
Weaknesses: weak_ W&LalumS
l~Ie’sthe governor of n e S S e S : are legally
Minnesota, for God s Look at the braindead.
sake! gm!

   

 

Prognosis: Sorry, God. You don’t have a prayer. Satan’s got a grip on this world tighter than Roseanne on a jar of Pringles, and Your dream team
is looking a bit shaky. Our odds: Satan, 5-1. Goodbye, good; hello, Hell!

 

PROTECTOR

HOW DOES $800/WEEK EXTRA INCOME
sound to you?
Amazingly, proﬁtable opportunity.
Send self-addressed stamped envelope to:
international
1375 Coney Island Ave., PMB #427
Brooklyn, New York 11230

FLAGS

THE S UPPL Y LINE
MILITARY SURPLUS

SPECIALIZIN G'INI FLA GS, POLES
& ACCESSORIES
COMMERCIAL,RESlDENTlAL, & NOVELITY

300 STYLES & SIZES IN STOCK
STATE, COUNTRY, ANCESTORIAL &
CONFEDERATE FLAGS

HAT PINS, PATCHES,NOVELTY & CUSTOM ITEMS

MILITARY CLOTHING AND RELATED ITEMS

LOTS OF NEW AND USED CAMO
LATEST IN NEW PATTERNS AND COLORS

BOONIE & FIELD CAPS, BOOTS, WEB GEAR, PACKS,
LIGHT STICKS, CANTEENS, PEA COATS, ETC.

MAIL ORDER

LOCATED AT
3 West Main Street
Salem, Va. 24153

To Order Call 1-800-365-7163
Or Fax 1-540-375-3679 M

 

VISA
L

V

U

