 

ﬂ

 

U112 Ring-tum {ﬂirt

WAsHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

‘‘ VOLUME 102, NO. 8

t Server crashes

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1999

. plague campus

Nearly constant problems with the com-
* puter network hobble W&L community

By Max Smith &
Heather McDonald

STA FF WRITERS

Frequent crashes continued to
plague the Washington and Lee Uni-
versity computing network this week,

‘ interrupting classes, erasing student

!.

assignments, and causing general
headaches for the entire W&L com-
munity.

“I want to drive a hatchet into a
computer screen,” said junior LeeAnn
Applegate, when asked about Univer-
sity computing problems.

Students and faculty across cam-

3‘ pus would probably echo that senti-

fl,

merit after multiple network crashes
and hardware problems this academic
year. Since the beginning of fall se-
mester, the University computing net-
work has not gone two full days with-
out one or more servers crashing. In
fact, the entire system failed on the

¢\ ﬁrst day of classes and prompted the

University Computing Department to
post a notice on the Internet the next
day explaining the problem.

“Much ofthe disruption is related

l to the signiﬁcant expansion in net-

work servers installed this summer,”
read the notice. “We continue to be-
lieve that this expansion, which al-
lows the greater segregation of user
groups, functions, and applications,
will enhance the reliability and qual-
ity of our networked services. . .”
Director of University Computing

1 John Stuckey said the problem lies

within the main student server, named
Jefferson, and the academic server,
named Madison. These two servers
carry the bulk of daily network traf-
ﬁc, including e-mail and ﬁle—sharing
functions. Stuckey says the problem
may be the hardware for the network,
the software used within the network,

‘ or a combination ofthe two.

Student Computing Coordinator
Dirk van Assendelft said the process
to diagnose the problem is a difﬁcult
one.

“We’re going through every little
piece, but we haven’t gotten to the
core problem yet,” van Assendelft
said. “Right now there is no silver
bullet to solve everything. We’re try-
ing to determine what the problem is
and how we can ﬁx it.”

Stuckey said both Dell, which cre-

ated the hardware for the system, and
Novell, which created the software
used by the system, have been con-
sulted about the problems. Also, Uni-
versity Computing has brought in
technical consultants and specialists
for their advice on the network’s
troubles.

Stuckey said he is conﬁdent the
system will be up and running
smoothly in a few days. Van
Assendelft agreed: “After [Friday]
morning, I hope they’ll be stable.”

Despite University Computing’s
attempts to diagnose the problem,
students and faculty continue to face
the reality ofa faulty network.

Journalism professor Claudette
Guzan Artwick canceled all of her
Television Production labs last week.
The lab depends on computers to edit
and store video clips and get up-to-
date stories from news servers on-line.
Due to missed lab time, the
Rockbridge Report, which is pro-
duced by the class and airs on Chan-
nel 2, has delayed its broadcast for a
week.

“University Computing has been
absolutely wonderful trying to re-
spond to our needs,” Artwick said.
“But I’m also concerned that we have
the technical support that we need
[in the Journalism labs] so that our
classes can be held.”

The Commerce School has also
seen its share of problems. Commerce
School Dean Larry Peppers said that
with new technologically interactive
classrooms built Over the summer,
Commerce School departments are
especially at risk when the network
crashes.

“All we do with computers is de-
pendent on the network,” said Pep-
pers, “and when the network crashes
everything grinds to a halt.”

Peppers thinks people have been
fairly patient with computing prob-
lems and is conﬁdent everything will
work out.

The Tucker Multimedia Center
digitalized its language programs over
the summer and network crashes have
plagued language classes as well.
Students had to record their language
homework on tape last week.

“Out of class preparation by stu-
dents has been interrupted,” said
TMC Director Dick Kuettner. “But

 

 

. M’/«,,.¢1«53_:‘}}'»7;*>>,’§"'7?'  »Ww~,»xe§ ». .., ~ I

 

 

‘£1 photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Editor

MEN AND THEIR BEST FRIENDS: Three students and their dogs lounge on the Front Lawn and enjoy one of this year’s last warm days.

Theme housing offered

Gaines suites opened to students of the same majors, interests

it’s a matter of growth by the univer-
sity and I think the intentions are
good.”

Academic Computing and Network
Specialist Thomas Ahnemann said
everyone should employ ‘fault toler-
ance’ when dealing with computers.

“You should always have a fall-
back technique like using several dif-
ferent drives when making a presen-
tation,” said Ahnemann. “That way
you have the ability to survive the
problems a network will have.”

Still students hope last week’s fre-
quent crashes won’t continue.

“Frustrating is the best word to
describe the situation,” said
Applegate. “[University Computing]
knows people are upset, and are
working to ﬁx the situation, but I want
someone to ﬁnally ﬁx the problem!”

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

FIRST STOP ON THE WORLD TOUR. The legendary Junior Marvin kicked off his world tour with a
concert at the Pavillion to a wild crowd and rave reviews on Friday night.

By Sara Lambert

STAFF WRITER

A suite in Gaines where only Ger-
man is spoken, or another with Chi-
nese characters on the wall could
soon be reality.

Next year Washington and Lee
University will be offering theme
suites in Gaines Hall and the Woods
Creek apartments for interested jun-
iors and seniors. The housing office
estimates four to ﬁve suites will be
unoccupied as a result of the new
sorority houses, and is offering them
to students interested in pursuing a
co-curricular living environment.

Assistant dean of students

Courtney Penn says he hopes the op-
portunity to share common interests
will "support the academic mission"
of the university. Foreign language
majors as well as students involved
in religious groups and other clubs,
including PRIDE and the Interna-
tional House, have been invited to
submit requests for theme housing.

"It's an interesting idea for Wash-
ington and Lee," said International
Club president Tom Grove. "It's some-
thing other schools have done in the
past and it'll be cool to see how it
works out here."

A meeting will be held this Thurs-
day at 6 pm in Gaines Gatehouse for
students interested in the

The Legend continues

Junior Marvin rocks the Pavillion

By Sonia Hall

STAFF WRITER

The lack of a beer garden did not
stop reggae lovers who partied from
about 9 pm until midnight in the Pa-
vilion last Friday.

Junior Marvin and friends proved
once again that conscious vibes
hold a universal language.

“I thought it was an awesome
concert,” senior Colleen Calvey
said. “And now I can say that I'm
three Bacon degrees away from Bob
Marley.”

The opening band, AUG, had en-
thusiastic members ofthe audience
grooving on stage. AUG replaced
the Brazilian band, Djambi, who were
unable to enter the US due to immi-
gration problems.

Marvin carried the crowd with
some of his own lyrics plus familiar
tunes of the legendary Bob Marley
such as “Get Up, Stand Up,” “Wait-
ing in Vain,” and “Redemption Song.”

“The spirit was high,” said senior
Cavelle Johnston, “and everyone
was interacting with the band.”

Marvin and band-members were
pleased with the crowd's reaction

throughout the evening. After the
show, fans crowded backstage to get
autographs from the entertainers.

This was Marvin’s ﬁrst U.S. ap-
pearance on his “Burnin’ Love into
the Millennium’ world tour.

administration's proposal: or with
suggestions of their own. The admin-
istration is willing to make some
physical alterations to the suites to
facilitate the learning experience. If
students would like to paint therooms
or "try something different" Penn said
the university would be supportive.
Proposals for suites are due to Dean
Penn on October 18th.

Although members of the
Women's Forum and different sorori-
ties have occupied suites in the past,
some students think the administra-
tion overestimates student reaction
to the opening of housing to lan-
guage majors and other organiza-
tions.

"I think It's a good idea but I don't
see how plausible it's going to be,"
said Gabrielle Best, "You need to get
to the heart ofthe issue, just having
theme housing is not going to make
us more diverse."

Freshman Jane Ledlie also thought
it a good idea in theory. However, she
said, "1 think it will be tough to get
juniors and seniors back on campus.
I think the only way to make it work is
through ﬁnancial need."

OPINION:

W&LIEE:

SPORTS:

LAST WORD:
Beer or Herpes

(Uh: Ring-tum iﬂhi

‘ September 27, 1999

Non-Speaking Traditions

Study Abroad; Life Beyond Lex

Football comes back with ﬁrst win of season

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

PAGE 5
PAGE 6

 

 

 

s -'-_.s'~‘> \'n‘s'i‘c‘-‘J:

wAsH:.«2:;r<.:~r - 4.3.. 
L£x:NGrorr,vA 2. .. -

OCT 0  TQQQ

 12 ﬂing-tum MES

 

SEPTEMBER 27, 1999 !

 

Watson Fellowship meeting tonight

An informational meeting for all students interested
in the Watson Fellowship will be held tonight at 7 pm in
Northen Auditorium.

Representatives of the Watson Foundation will be
on hand to explain the goals ofthe fellowship, as well
as to answer any questions.

The Watson Fellowship, which was instituted in
1968, consists ofa $22,000 stipend which is awarded
annually to 60 students of select liberal arts colleges
around the country. Applicants may design their own
proposal, but must sustain 12 months of study abroad,
pursuing a speciﬁc individual interest. This is Wash-
ington and Lee University’s ﬁrstiyear as a participating
institution.

Any further questions may be addressed to profes-‘
sor of spanish Jeff Barnett at x8950 in Tucker Hall, or
via e—mail at barnettj@wlu.edu

W&L names new undergrad faculty

Washington and Lee University has announced the ap-
pointment of 35 new undergraduate faculty members.

Receiving tenure track positions are Scott J. Boylan, ac-
counting; Monica Capra, economics; Christopher D.
Connors, geology; Gregory Cooper, director of the Society
and Professions program; Kevin M. Crotty, classics; Nathan
S. Feldman, mathematics; Sascha Goluboff, sociology and
anthropology; Janet Ikeda-Yuba, East Asian languages; Lucas
E. Morel, politics; Rance D. Necaise, computer science; David
S. Peterson, history; Robert Stewart, psychology; and David
W. Sukow, physics and engineering.

The following persons received appointments for the 1999-
2000 school year: Bruno Blumenfeld, religion; Christopher
Camuto, English; Elizabeth H. Cox ’97, chemistry; Robert S.
Culpepper, management; Paul Friedrich, sociology/anthropol-
ogy; Jeffrey R. Hart, management; Frank Hobbs, department
of art; Thomas E. Jenkins, classics; James Alan Kendrick,
politics; Stephen J. Lucey, art; Kellie L. Maske, economics;
Michael F. McClure, English; Gerald C. Myers, music; Paul
Notaro, psychology; Bill Oliver, English; Richard R. Ruble,
economics; Sandra L. Schmidt, economics; James F. Smith,
economics; Donald J. Smyth, economics; Carl G. K Weaver,
management; Trina Welsheimer, biology; Laura Winkiel, En-
glish.

Sonoklect to feature jazz legends

Washington and Lee University's first Sonoklect con-
cert of the year opens with a concert by the jazz group,
Sphere. This all-star jazz quartet features pianist Kenny
Barron, saxophonist Gary Bartz, drummer Ben Riley and
bassist Buster Williams. The free performance takes place
in the Lenfest Center on Oct. 2 at 8 p.m.

Both Rouse and Riley were key members of Monk’s combo
in the 1960s, and the Sphere songbook was originally rife
with Monk tunes. This concert is sponsored by the
Sonoklect Festival of Modern Music. For more infonnation
please call Sonoklect director Terry Vosbein at 463-885 1.

Howard to give Shannon-Clark Lecture

Jean E. Howard, professor of English and director of
the Institute for Research on Women and Gender at C0-
lumbia University, will deliver the annual Shannon-Clark
Lecture in English at Washington and Lee University on
Thursday, Oct. 7 at 8 p.m.

The Shannon-Clark Lectures in English, established by
a gift from a Washington and Lee alumnus who wishes to
remain anonymous, honor the memories of Edgar Finley
Shannon, chairman of W&L's English department from 1914
until his death in 1938, and Harriet Mabel Fishbum Clark, a
grandmother of the donor and a woman vitally interested
in liberal education.

INTO DEBT.

 

THIS YEAR A LOT OF COLLEGE
SENIORS WILL BE GRADUATING

Conn: qwyv wmr Us!

@[ease support tne 5K run witﬂ ‘Ineta

Cﬁi Omega
tfianiés a[[ tfiose
who Fieljaecf coffect
yopfait yogurt [ids
[ast year.
More tﬁan $300
was raised for
Ereast cancer
researcfi.
Once again, we’re
co[[ecting [ids in
front of tlie Co-op

U d th Ar ’ -
1,,,,,RE,p‘jfym§,,,1:”’S and 7071 to raise money for C/?lSj4l and m/wf w0u[C[,
program,youcou get . .
i)rilrtef§,f)y’f,‘a‘ﬁ‘:,°,‘1‘f{S:VI:1t:1naL tﬁe 91/luscufar Qystropﬂy /lssociation. appreciate any A
Each year you serve ,
onactivedutyreduces _ C07’ltl7’LT/£e6[ STxL}7}907"t
yqurindebtedness_by0ne~ Saturcfay, Octolier Zncf, starting at 11 ,
th1rd°r31»5°.°vWh1Ch' . . during our current
. . €V€r3m°“"t1Sgreat€“ am in front of (Doremiis gymnasium
up t0"l§l1S(§ to Perkins Loans,Stafford Loans, ’ Ca?/"J9/n dgélin-Vt
andcertain otherfederallyinsuredloans,which are not _ /i I /6[_
Indeffilnldtdebtreliefisjustoneofthemanybeneﬁts Entrance fee of $52  ticﬁets and t" t l5 te/V1/l e
you ll earnfrom theA5:rC:i:.8::l;:purArmyRecruiter. Srts (M/ed-nesd-ay) T/iursd-ay and» $.17; disease. g
. Octoﬁer is fBreast,_Cancer
AnMv.BEAvV|£,(g,,,);gI,i-‘cAN 3:? Jay outside t/ie C0-Op and tﬁe (D-ifafﬂ Awareness {Month
is
.1.

‘M2 have the Foresight to set goals and the determination to meet them. You have the creative spirit to take your own ~

ideas, implement them and make them work. You've got what it takes to head to the top with a rewarding career in retail.

Hecht's, a division at The May Department Stores Company, has a place For you.

Hecht's invites you to_explore the opportunities in our Executive Training Program. Show us your style, your passion tor
excellence, and we'll show you an exciting career.

W//new meow» «'4» rv0Torvz7_  7/T3 

0 Buying
0 Corporate Finance

Come and see us at the University Center Room T09 on Tuesday, October 5th, 6 p.m. - 7 p.m.

FOOD, FUN AND MORE!
COME CASUAL!

TIIF. \l \\ |)F,l'\ll'I‘\1l'I\'l' ."l'(lRl*.\‘ I H\ll'\\\

_ , _ ,_ .
tgggr .J;:p3,rt_Jm,x),r Cr",{jlCr\v;_j.r

To Find out more about opportunities at Hecht's, visit www.maycompany.com

 

r 0 2 ﬁling-tmn lﬂhi
1 SEPTEMBER 27, 1999 

. A yearly lament to the non-Speaking Tradition

there with Late-Nite. There are people that l’ve never been
fonnally introduced to, but because we’ve always said hi to

PAGE 3

 

Usually this tirade comes later in the year, when the Washing- you isn’t a matter of making conversation with them or telling
ton and Lee community becomes jaded and bored by everything them off It’s acknowledging the other person’s presence. It’s

orientation, or maybe people are simple forgetful. There was
a time when a committee of students could punish you for

 

we supposedly hold dear. Unfortimately,
it needs to be said now: SPEAK!

For those of you not “in the know,” 
there’s this little thing that good ol’ Gen- '‘ ~.,__
eral Lee started here when he was presi— ‘ “"‘
dent. Known as the “Speaking Tradi-

  

tion,” it makes clear that this is not just a college but a community A

of civility in which we acknowledge each other. We say hello
when we pass each other on the grounds, intown, wherever.

It seems that someone declared a moratorium on the speaking
tradition and didn’t tell me. Saying hello to the people passing by

Dieting causes
befuddlement

One of the greatest manifestations of adolescent hypoc-
risy can be best illustrated through observing our reaction to
food and its respective consumption.

On average, most teenage girls watch their weight more
religiously than they watch “Friends”. (Okay, enough. I can
already hear all you “secure in body image” types vehe-
mently protesting. On average, being the operative phrase.)
And yet, our self-proclairned fear of the Freshman 15 yields
the epitome of self contradiction. For example, there are al-
ways those

   

who roll up to Q-

McDona1d’s Northern Exposure
and order a L A3 - - 7

#5 with the g I Kns Pollma 03
works and a

. Diet Coke. This confounds me. We are more or less saying,

“I’ll have an order of lard on a roll, a side of bacon fat, and
pork grease for dessert.” And then I suppose the Diet Coke
represents some weak consolation, a perverted reassurance
that hey, I may not be poster girl for model dietary habits, but,
as depicted by my Diet Coke, I am maintaining a modicum of
health. The only assumption I can draw from said observa-
tions is that we girls diet merely to identify ourselves as
members of the female race. (Otherwise, all we have is our
addiction to shopping and Double Mint gum).

Regardless, even more amusing and unduly hypocritical
is our love/hate relationship with the Great American Institu-
tion: Beer. On the one hand: “Yeah, I’m going to the D-hall to
get a salad, cup o’ water, and maybe a whole wheat bread
crumb.” On the other hand: “Dude, you want a beer, dripping

I with less than health conducive substances and a triple digit

caloric content?” “Hmmm...okay, I’m D.”

My sister once said to me, “If you’re gonna be obese, you
might as well go the whole nine and be really obese. Relish in
the fact that you can eat what you want.” And to those girls
who fall into the “Don’t-you-hate-me-I-can-eat—whatever-l-

" want-and-never-gain-wait” genre, it’ 11 catch up to you. (Edi-
torial comment: “Genre” is the most pretentious sounding

word in the world, second only to “cliche.” End editorial
comment.) Regardless. I personally feel there’s no diet like
coffee and cigarettes. All four food groups may not be wholly
represented, but if you don’t get your National Nutritional
Quota (who makes up these terms?) then at least you can
look profound and poetic, hit up The Ruse, and spew in-
sightful comments about Allen Ginsberg or something. Can
you same the same for chicken fingers?

Thus , I marvel at the great folly of our adolescent duality,
our desire to run with the YM subscribers and pour Nutra
Sweet into our tea, (tea: both speeds up your metabolism and
curbs your appetite) in conﬂict with our ravenous craving for
french fries, beer, and adolescent conformity.

Ellie ‘ﬂing-tum iﬂlii

Executive Editor
Associate Editor
News Editor
Opinions Editor
W&I.ife Editors

Polly Doig
Hollister Hovey
Michael Crittenden
Stephanie Bianco
Ginger Phillips
Elianna Marziani
Frances Groberg
Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin

Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Last Word Editor

COP)’ Editor Heather McDonald
Photo Editor Emiiy games
Assistant Photo Editor Lisa Lin

Online Editor Ali soydan

Layout Editor Neal Willetts
Circulation Director Leo Brown

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for’content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
‘Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wIu.edu
http://wlu. edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

 

, Coffee Talk
 Heather McDonald or

a

not that hard. I find it incredibly insulting
when I make eye-contact with a fellow stu-
dent or even a professor, and I say “Hello!”
and the other person simply looks away
and keeps walking. Why is it so difficult to
muster “Hello,” “Hi,” even a “whussup?”
We go to a very small school, and we just about all know each
other anyway. People continually gripe about the loss of tradi-
tion at W&L, how we’re changing too fast... yet these are
the same people who can’t seem to speak!

This was one of my favorite things about W&L, right up

each other, we know the other person. I personally like know-
ing the people that are on campus with me. That gives me a
sense of security unparalleled at any other school. In light
of the fear that has pervaded the campus recently because
of the assault of a student two weeks ago, the speaking tradition
can overcome some of the distrust. Picture this: you’re walking
out at night to an academic building. Who do you feel more
comfortable around—the person who returns your greeting so
that you know they are of the W&L community, or the persoh
who scuttles by without acknowledging you?

Maybe we didn’t emphasize it enough during freshman

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Phi writer has his
‘eyes wide shut’

Dear Editor,

The Ring—Tum Phi has never been
expected to keep our somewhat de-
tached campus informed of contem-
porary artistic trends; in fact, it’s a
miracle if you can manage to spell
your headlines correctly. But your
publication of Brian Prisco’s latest
ill-conceived attempt at a film review
is downright offensive.

“Eyes Wide Shut” stands easily
among Stanley Kubrick’s finest ac-
complishments. His dreamlike film

depicts a man overcome with anger
and confusion, coaxed into a world
he can’t understand, accept, or re-
sist. The cinematography, painted
like a canvas of tempting natural
lights and mysterious blue urban
hues, plays the perfect background
to a fascinating cast of characters
unable to control their surroundings
or predict their responses. The film
makes brilliant use of real-time in-
teractions and well-placed musical
cues, as well as excellent perfor-
mances from Nicole Kidman and
Sydney Pollack as two of Dr. Bill
Harford’s (Tom Cruise) ambiguously
antagonistic counterparts.

No Brian, there aren’t that
many boobies to gawk at; I guess
you and the rest of the subscrib-
ers to People magazine can cry
about your lost seven dollars. Let
those who understand (or have
the attention span for) modern
cinema write the reviews. You
and the rest of the Phi editors
probably are “better off renting
porno”; but don’t slander the
name of one of our century’s
greatest artists simply because
you don’t have the guts to admit
you don’t understand this film.

Thanks,

Matt LaMotte - ’00 -

Wanna write for The
Ring-- fum P/1/?

Come to the Editorial Board meeting - Tuesday 7pm
University Center room 208

TALKback...

“Um...lwent grocery shopping.”
-Warren Meehan ’00

“I was selling drinks. It was quite snappy-
you felt like dancing and moving around,

a not
‘l.III<|!||‘
nu mm 

‘ :“.‘.:‘.  in ‘ii
I l 1‘ I l\| III In in “mi II‘
II :

mu. mu: I15“ "viii '
3 iiiiii ' iii{I{.'§§:'i'\\ \‘\:Hi‘ |

the music was THAT good.”
-Aditya Chandraghatgi ’03

“I had some good, solid Jamaican fun.”
-Cavelle Johnston ’00

not wearing a coat-and-tie, or keeping up the speaking tradi-
tion. That’s not quite right in my book, but it sure kept the
speaking tradition alive. You may not like a lot of things
about W&L, but simply saying hello should not be your
main point of contention with the school.

There is only one way that speaking tradition will con-
tinue, no matter how many editorials we write about it. Every-
one must try to continue to speak. For those of you who
already speak, don’t get discouraged; for those of you who
seem to have forgotten about the speaking tradition, it’s time
to remember. Speak.

No, Wal-mart
doesn’t count  

Sitting in my room late last Thursday afternoon, I
pondered means of procrastination. After cleaning my
room (including alphabetizing my CD collection), paint-
ing my fingernails (and, what the heck, toenails too),
and emailing my friends from home (all three of them), I
was left with but one innate and reasonable impulse: Go
shopping! No,
not Wal-Mart
shopping, but
f u ii d a m e n ta 1
shopping,‘ the
sort that takes
place in the climate controlled haven of a sprawling mall.
The sort where one communes with greasy Chinese at
food courts, pushy salesgirls on commission and the
soothing sound of printing receipts.

This is an appalling deficiency in Lexington. One can
only have so many pieces ofhandmade pottery or Civil
War memorabilia in a dorm room. How can it be that this
college town is lacking in the most basic of collegiate
establishments. In other words, no Gap, no Abercrombie,
no Aeropostale, no Limited, no J. Crew, no American
Eagle, no Old Navy, no Borders, no Barnes & Noble, no
Wiz, no Strawberries, no Body Shop...you get the idea.
In fact Lexington “Business District” doesn’t even sup-
port a Starbucks.

According to one anonymous freshman, “shopping
here sucks.” The closest we come to civilization is...ta
da...Roanoke. Yeah, no kidding. Can’t wait to find that
homecoming dress. Actually, it is gangegonomic disad-
vantage to the town that with so many well-off stu-
dents there are so few places to shop.

I’m not just talking about the functional problems
with shopping in Lexington, however. Malls, or for that
matter any national chain store, bring us back in con-
tact with real life. Shopping is a cultural experience.
Whether it’s thumbing through a rack of pants to ﬁnd
your size or browsing the shelves of books and stop-
ping for a cappuccino, the satisfaction of being among
material items can be as refreshing as returning to na-
ture after some time in the city.

I think it all stems form when we were children and
we would return home with our assorted packages and,
if you were like me, line up our acquisitions and look
proudly on them as reflections of our choices and indi-
viduality. I always had to wear a new outfit to school
the next day or listen to a new CD over and over. I may
question the desirability ofa society so finnly rooted in
commercialism, but I do not question its veracity. Now,
when our identity is so defined by our style, we have
no outlets to which to turn.

My conclusion, dear readers, is as superficial as it is
true: Both Lexington and W&L students would benefit
from an invasion of mainstream commercial stores.

Heaven Forf end
Sara Lambert ’05

 

 

 

‘uote of the Week:

{I  
Was Naked Girl’ 3
nakedness welcome
at Chi Psi?

— Curious senior guy

J}

What do you think about the
n Junior Marvin concert?

 ‘:.;.
in I 
‘V  Hal

“I hadndinner with the band. It was
awesome and the band was friendly.”
-Mina Oh ’02

 

 

@112 iﬂing-Gum iﬂhi ;,

W& IFE

PAGE 4

SEPTEMBER 27, 1999

W&L in rearview mirror: experience life abroad

By Sarah Sturtz

STAFF WRITER

The Eiffel Tower looms taller than
the Colonnade, the mahogany dining
halls at Oxford are older than those in
Evans Dining Hall and the German beer
bears little resemblance to Natty Light.

Experiences such as these can be-
come reality for many students by tak-
ing advantage of the myriad of study
abroad programs of-
fered through Wash-
ington and Lee Uni-
versity. The Office of
International Educa-
tion provides stu-
dents with the oppor-
tunity to study in a
variety of different
countries in order to
gain these and other
new perspectives.

“There are tons of
opportunities with
studying abroad,”
said senior Sara Kate
Goodwin, who spent
last spring term in
Paris. “It opens your
mind. You can learn
about different cul-
tures and see part of
the world that you haven’t seen be-
fore.”

The number of W&L students who
study abroad increases each year. There
were over 100 students who participated
in the W&L study abroad programs last
spring term and an additional 100 that

participated in programs not directly
affiliated with the University.

On Sept. 22, numerous W&L stu-
dents visited the tables at the annual
Study Abroad Fair. This allowed stu-
dents a further chance to find out
about various programs and countries
where they could study abroad.

“I want to see something new and
get out of Lexington,” sophomore
Stuart Noel said, explaining his inter-

Klingelhofer, director of International
Education, said.

According to Dr. Klingelhofer, there
is a threefold beneﬁt for students who
wish to study abroad. Students can learn
more about culture and improve their
language skills. They can also learn
subjects through foreign educational
systems and with students from all over
the world. Finally, it is an opportunity
for personal growth and for learning

    

est in studying abroad.

Sophomore Tarik Bateh said he
was looking for an “enriching experi-
ence” in either Spain or Florence.

“We encourage all students to
have an international experience while
here [at W&L],” Dr. William

photo courtesy Maggie Maher
Seniors Maggie Maher and Meghan Mazour in a town-
ship outside Cape Town, South Africa.

how to adapt to new
environments.

The subject of a
study abroad trip
does not have to be
affiliated with a
student’s major. It
could simply be an
opportunity to ex-
plore a different in-
terest.

“It depends on
what you want to get
out of the experi-
ence,” said Dr.
Klingelhofer.

Sometimes stu-
dents get more than
they bargained for
out of their experi-
ence abroad. They
are left, however,
with some great stories.

Senior Maggie Maher participated
in the Semester at Sea program and vis-
ited eleven different countries.

On a safari she woke up to find jag-
uar prints outside her tent and saw li-
ons that were only ten feet away.

Lex gets taste of Manhattan

By Emily Barnes

PHOTO EDITOR

Without the fanfare of a bustling
metropolis, a little eatery with a big
name crept into the heart of Lexington
Saturday.

Manhattan Hot Dog Company, lo-
cated at 3 West Nelson Street, offers a
selection of tortilla “International

gourmet edge. The bagels are New
York gourmet bagels; customers have
the choice of onion, plain, seeded, or
garlic flavors.

Bagel Sandwiches are “over-
stuffed” with chicken or shrimp
salad, and the selection of
“Wrapps” include spinach, herb
and garlic, and tomato basil torti-
llas. The hot dog is “Nathan’s Fa-

pepperjack cheese and roasted pep-
pers, there seems to be something
for everybody.

One local customer summed up
Monty’s eclectic mix of flavors: “It’s
not your typical wrap sandwich.”

Monty is making his selection of
beverages just as interesting and
varied as the food on the menu.

He plans on serving a selection

Wrapps” sandwiches, bagel
sandwiches, and “Nathan’s
Famous Hot Dogs.” The
menu is a change from the
food of other Lexington es-
tablishments, and that is ex-
actly what owner Frank
Monty wanted.

“That was my big thing,”
Monty said. “I didn’t want
to compete with anybody. I
wanted something different
and unique.”

If his role as restaurant

    

 
 

 , .s..-5
’C""‘ *-—--—-—-——

of fresh fruitjuices and
fruit Smoothies, as
well as giving the cus-
tomer a choice of six
protein boosters. Fruit,
sherbet and yogurt are
also on the menu.
The eatery had a
“soft opening” on Satur-
day, Monty said, in or-
der to get things running
smoothly before the
grand opening on Oct 2.
Monty is hoping to

columnist for The
Rockbridge Weekly is any
indication, Monty under-
stands good food, as well as
the need for new and exciting eating
options in Lexington. The new eatery
fills the absence for what seems to be
one of today’s trendiest food stores
— the bagel shop.

“That’s typical of any college com-
munity that there’s bagel shops, and
I’m surprised that there are none here
in Lexington,” said Monty.

The Manhattan Hot Dog Company
is much more than your typical bagel
shop, providing a mix of foods with a

mous Hot Dog” from New York, and
is served on a Soft Philadelphia
Pretzel Bun.

For those who may not be fans
of the great American dog, one of
the tortilla “International Wraps”
may hit the spot.

With unusual selections such as
the Nova Scotia, a delicious mix of
smoked salmon, asparagus and
cream cheese, and the Bourbon
Street with its blackened chicken,

photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Edit;
The new restaurant in town, The Manhattan Hot Dog
Company, oflicially opened its doors on Sept. 18.

attract a crowd with a
hot—dog-eating contest
on that day.

He is searching for
five women and five men to compete.
The contestant in each group who
can eat the most hot dogs in five
minutes will win a $20 gift certiﬁcate
to the shop.

Those interested in entering the
contest should call 464-1501, and
anyone interested in some great,
unique food should stop by
Lexington’s newest culinary addi-
tion, The Manhattan Hot Dog Com-

pany.

  Are you considering theological education?
  Meet With an admissions representative from

, i*,|'i_',3II:E.&_Zf:,E.§_C

    

-I-IARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL  

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 30
4:30 P.M. — 6:30 P.M.
REEVES CENTER

‘Learn about our graduate programs, including the Master of Divinity
__and the Master of Theological Studies, and about related resources
Within Harvard University’s other graduate faculties and the nine-school
Boston Theological Institute.

ALL STUDENTS, ALL MAJORS AND ALL YEARS WELCOME

For more information, contact the Office of Admissions and Financial Aid at (617) 495-5796
or consult the Harvard Divinity School website at bttp://www.}Jds.baroarc£edu

photo courtesy of Ginger Phillips

The students who participated in the W&L Spring Term study abroad program in Spain
took a break from their language studies to party the night away at the annual fair, or
Feria, in El Puerto de Santa Maria.

“We were in Beijing when the U.S.
accidentally bombed the embassy in
China,” she said of another unique ex-
perience on the trip.

There are a variety of different ways
to study abroad. A student can partici-
pate with one of the Washington and
Lee exchange programs in the U.K., Ja-
pan, China (Hong Kong), and Germany.

One can also participate in an ap-
proved study abroad program directed
by another university or private organi-
zation, directly enroll in a foreign univer-
sity or go for a summer job, internship or
volunteer opportunity abroad.

There_is also a unique experience
for W&L students called Spring Term

Abroad. This is for W&L students who
go to a different country accompanied
by W&L faculty members. There are
eight Spring Term Abroad programs
planned for spring 2000 varying from
studying the language and culture in
Spain to studying plant taxonomy in
Costa Rica.

Junior Jeff Sloan went to Spain for
the 1999 spring term. He is not a Span-
ish major but has a strong interest in
Spain and saw the trip as an opportu-
nity to further his communication skills.
He was also able to live with three dif-
ferent families during his stay. When
asked if he would recommend it to other
W&L students, he responded,

“Highly! I loved it and hope I can go
back.”

“The experience was really wonder-
ful,” said junior Sam Evans, who went
on the same trip. “I learned a lot about
my culture and myself, plus the night
life was great.” He added that study-
ing abroad is something every student
should do.

The study abroad program is open
to any student provided they have a
2.5 GPA,~although seniors must request
permission. Any interested student
should call or visit the Office of Inter-
national Education to explore his or her
areas of interest and the wide range of
study abroad possibilities available.

  
 
 
 
   
     
  
    
    
  

T 6:30 p.m.

Upcoming events

Monday, September 27“

12:00 p.'m. Volunteer Fair for Rockbridge Area
Service Agency. Stemmons Plaza. *

Junior Leadership Council’s Class of ‘
2001 Party. Liberty Hall Ruins. I ‘

   

j I gree applications for June 2000
L _ j ‘  V i » I due: University Registrar's Office,
7:00 pm. WatsonFellowship informational  '   Reidﬂau
meeting. Northen Auditoriuinw . ' .1 V‘ I ‘ -
I _. _ A, ~ I  ' dturdoy, October’ 2
8:00 Pm’ C°n°°“G“ﬂdf“Chamb°"M“s‘9‘S°°i' L -00*a.m.” ”:.Tennis (M). Southeast Regional.
« etyofLii1colnCenter.”Ke1ler*. i  I j 3 m.SityC0um_
Thea'I°= Lenfest Cemer‘ Sonoklectz Sonoklect. “Sphere.”
’ . -. , , . ~  » ‘ , _Ke1ler Theatre, Lenfest Center.
Tuesday, September 28 I   A. 10:00 P_m_ 5 g0,spmy_KA.

. 00 am.

4  (M). W&L vs. Sweet‘Bria.r.
 «Libeny.Hai1 Field. L

 oheri--S1

1 ,}}Sunday,i October 3
’ Tennis (M). Southeast Regional.
L «Varsity Courts.

     
   

3 W. Nelson St.

540-464-1501

Lexington, VA 24450

 

“We’re more than just hot dogs; we also serve fresh bagels,
‘International Wrapps’and high protein smoothie.”

Mon. - Thurs. 8:00a.m. - 7:00p.m.
Fri. - 8:00a.m. - 9:00p.m.
Sat. - 11:00a.m. - 9:00p.m.

 

PAGE 5

S

@112 ﬁling-tum lﬂlri

PORTS

SEPTEMBER 27, 1999 ‘?

Generals pull

rank on Colonels
Football Grabs First Win 23-17

Field Hockey
has goals

By Steele Cooper

SPOR Ts EDITOR

By Frances Groberg

SR0RI:sEDIroR

“I felt like a man among boys out there,” said senior
Michael Moore.

That was the tone from the driven and aggressive W&L
football team as they defeated the Colonels of Centre Col-
lege on Saturday.

The Generals once again found themselves down early
in the game. Centre picked up a 10-0 lead with 6:54 in the
ﬁrst half. W&L cut into that lead with :19 remaining when
senior quarterback Christian Batcheller hit freshman tight
end Davis White with the four-yard pass.

On their first drive of the second half W&L jumped into
the lead on the four-yard run from junior running back
Marc Watson. Watson opened up that opportunity with "
his 53-yard run to open the series.

W&L’s ﬁnal score to seal the victory came when
Batcheller scampered into the endzone from 1 1 yards out.
That made the ﬁnal score 23-17.

Watson once again led the offense for the Generals. He
posted 1 18 yards on 21 carries and had one touchdown on
the day.

The Generals’ defense had an outstanding day on Sat-
urday racking up a school record seven sacks. Moore tal-
lied four of those himself.

“After the last two games we really had something to
prove,” Moore said. “The defensive backs covered their
receivers and the linebackers made their tackles. Their of-
fensive line was bigger than we were but we were so much
quicker. They couldn’t handle our stunt plays.”

“The defense stepped up and came through when we
needed them to. Now that we’ve got momentum off of this
win we are going to make it carry over in our next games,”
said White.

The Generals felt that the Colonels were a tougher team
than the last two opponents they had faced. “They were
more aggressive than Guilford and Stronger than both
Guilford and Hopkins. They just didn’t want it as bad as
we did,” said Watson.

The game was a virtual must-win situation for the Gen-
erals due to the fact it was considered a conference game.
“We had to win this if we wanted to get to where we wanted
to go,” said Watson.

The Generals will try to continue to ride the momentum
they gained from Saturday’s win when they travel to

Macon next Saturday.

Washingtori and Lee is undergoing some/heavy
changes in the wake of its 250th year. Sorority housing',ja

parking garage, and a new student center are allin the
plan as the school charges into the next century. Amidst "

all of this is a group ofwomen who would like to add their. , I

names under the list of “things tocome.” The club ﬁeld “

hockey team is looking to be elevated to varsity 
After speaking with Athletic Director Mike Walsh

and submitting a proposal for varsity status last spring,

, the team was told that in order to be added to thelist 9
,of varsity sports at W&L, the ﬁeld hockey program f
. ‘would have to show that it could sustain student in- ,

ggterest. For this club season, that has meant increasing 8
 the number of games the team played and seeking out

 the coaching skills of Laurie Stagnitta and third. year

~,,_j,f.j_law_,student Beth Horowicz. _ V ‘ , I

 Helping the team’s’ cause right now is the fact that"
7 ﬁeld hockey is already established as a sport within I

the ODAC. y
“We have thirteen games on our schedule, seven of

, which are against established varsity teams,” junior cap-
, tain Martha Combrooks said. “We have 22 dedicated

players this year. I have high hopes for the season.“
Walsh explains that there is a lot involved in adding
a new varsity sport to the program. In addition to stu-
dent interest, issues such as ﬁeld space, coaches’ sal-
ary, travel expenses, and uniforms must be considered.
“We don’t want to institute a new varsity ‘program and
the turn our backs on them. We want to be able to pro-
I vide the same services as we currently do for all varsity
teams,” Walsh said. ,
Field space is one of the crucial issues involving add-

.  another varsity team at W&L. 'lhe ﬁve year plan

1‘ includes an agenda thatwould addressthis problem.

: ..Redoing the current practice ﬁelds, reclaiming the base-
. A ball ﬁeld left vacant by the new stadium, and puttipg
 down an artiﬁcial turf ﬁeld with full lighting capabilities '
 are all plans for the future. I I

Walsh said that having the ﬁelds ﬁnished is not a

* f prerequisite for the ﬁeld hockey team’s elevation to var-

: sity status. “We would just have to work something else

». _ out until more ﬁeld space becomes available,” he said.

 - .A<§<.1ing ﬁeld hockey to W.&L?s vqrsitypr:9arsn.a.s2.u1s1,.;
Ashlad, Virginia to take on the Yellow Jackets of Rando1ph-  5“  ‘" ”~’ ”‘"~;*' er’: I , I ' 2 . f I 5 ’ 2 ,_ *5 "

an

t

"‘/'"  es/W old

Members of the club ﬁeld hockey team, in search of varsity” status, practice diligently.

have very positive effects for all women’s sports. Sopho-
more Courtenay Fisher had to make a tough decision about
sports when she was choosing a school. “I decided to go
to a Division-III school so that 1 could play tow varsity
sports. I was disappointed that W&L did not have a var-
sity ﬁeld hockey program, but I liked the school so much
thatl decided to come and play club.”

Other recruits may not make the same decision. “I have

met so many recruits who wanted to play both ﬁeld hockey’
I and lacrosse on the varsity level, so they wound up going

somewhere else,” senior lacrosse captain Katherine Riddle

_ said.  acknowledged that the traditional carryover.

between the two  is anfotherconsideration in the
decision to elevate‘. field hockey to varsity status.
There is no set date for the addition of ﬁeld hockey
as a varsity sport, though it has been discussed exten-
sigely within tlip University Athletic Committee.
Corribrooksi had grispeiis an , eiiteam. would be varsity

. by the fall of 2000, but the  remains unsure.

“It’s not an issueabout whether the team will even-
tually go varsity, but when we can feasibly do it,” Walsh

’ Pointed 0’-.11;/' 82,5] 4

e clubﬁeld  take on Ferrum Col-

: .*¢8s:9sT"¢s4aésP thslaw a*4=°°~

Volleyball wins Invitational,
defeats Bridgewater

By Steele Cooper

SROR TS EDITOR

The W&L volleyball team contin-
ued their streak of dominating play
this week. Over the weekend, the Gen-
erals took the title at the Maryville In-
vitational. They also won their only
ODAC match of the week against
Bridgewater(l5-12, 15-12, 15-12).

During the opening round of the
Invitational in Maryville, Tennessee
on Friday the Generals fell to Savan-
nah College of Art and Design in a
close 5 game match (9-15, 15-9, 16-14,
11-15,21-23).

Senior Nancy Reinhart tallied 12
kills and dug 26 of SCAD’s attacks.
She was joined by sophomore Lind-
say Ruckert who had 17 kills and 14
digs.

“It was a really good game,” said
All-Toumament Team Member sopho-

more Lee Charbonet. “We were so
deep in the rally scored ﬁfth game that
it really could have gone either way.”

Savannah College of Art and De-
sign have been regulars at the NCAA
tournament in the past several years.
“Two or three years ago SCAD killed
us. We’ve deﬁnitely improved our
game,” said Charbonet.

The Generals upped their record to
7-2 later on Friday with a win over East-
ern Mennonite (16-18, 15-8, 15-10, 10-
15, 15-10).

Ruckert led the Generals with 16 kills
and 18 digs. Reinhart tallied 10 kills and
12 digs. Junior Katherine Kline and Jun-
ior Pam Saulsbury led the setters with
31 and21 assists, respectively.

Saturday the Generals defeated
both Westminster College (15-13, 7-15,
15-6, 16-14) and Maryville College (7-
15, 15-9, 15-9, 15-9) to seal the touma-
ment win.

Charbonet and Ruckert were named
to the All-Toumament Team. “We’re
off to a good start and getting our-
selves together as a team. This was a
big win for us,” said Charbonet.

Wednesday, W&L won their third
straight ODAC match and kept their
conference record untamished. The
Generals defeated Bridgewater (15-12,
15- 12. 15-12). W&L has yet to drop a
game to any ODAC opponent and
their ODAC streak is up to 16 dating
back to 1997.

The Generals, overwhelming favor-
ites to repeat as ODAC champions, will
receive an automatic bid to the NCAA
tournament if they do win ODAC’s.
“We’re taking this one step at a time,”
said Charbonet. “We’re concentrating
on winning ODAC’s but we can see
the national tournament in our sights.”

The Generals take on Randolph-
Macon Women’s College on Tuesday

Bad luck hits
men’s soccer

in the Warner Center.

Women’s soccer
1-3 for week

By Robert Turner

STAFF WRITER

By Frances Groberg

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s soccer team had a
frustrating week, losing to VMI and Virginia Wesleyan.

The Generals traveled to Virginia Wesleyan looking for
their first ODAC victory, but returned home with another loss.

The Marlins scored ﬁrst on a penalty kick, but senior
Jamie Parker quickly evened the score on a powerful shot
only minutes later. The Marlins added another goal early
in the second half, but the Generals again tied the game on
a Parker penalty kick.

The match appeared headed to overtime, but with less
than ten minutes left, the Generals had some bad luck. As
W&L defense tried to clear the ball, the referee got in the
way, allowing Virginia Wesleyan to score. “It was one of the
greatest shots I have ever seen” senior Scott LeToumeau
said. The Marlins added another goal before the game ended.

Despite the loss, the Generals feel as if they played well
against ODAC power Virginia Wesleyan. “We played well
the whole game, and just got a little unlucky at the end,”
sophomore Andrew Grimes said.

W&L also suffered a tough loss on Wednesday against
VMI 1-0, even though the Generals outshot the Cadets 13-9.

The team plays at home against Hampden-Sydney on
Wednesday starting at 4:00.

The Washington and Lee women’s soccer team suf-
fered a snag in their season this week, losing two out of
three games.

The Generals had problems on Sunday against Meth-
odist, losing 4-1 despite outshooting their opponents 27-
7. Their difﬁculties seemed to revolve around Methodist
player Jill Catron, who was able to score a hat trick.

Sophomore Drew Powers scored the only goal of the game
for W&L at 84: 10, drawing the Generals within a 3-1 score.

The team’s weekend problems started with their loss to
North Carolina Wesleyan by a score of 3-0. The Battlin‘ Bish-
ops opened the scoring just 4:28 into the match. Though the
Generals stayed within one goal going into halftime, thanks
to 1 1 saves from senior goalie Stephanie McKnight, the
Bishops Scored twice during the second half. The Bishops
outshot the Generals 20-4.

The bright spot for the team this week came on Wednes-
day, when W&L defeated Eastern Mennonite 2-0. Senior
defender Ansley Miller scored at the 43:40 mark, andjun—
ior Margaret-Hunter Turner clinched the win with her goal
at64:30.

The Generals return to action on September 30. against
Sweet Briar College. Gametime is set for 4:30 in Lexington.

'71

\l  .
‘My body is Y2K compatible...
How about yours?”

Omega
f/71'/12 es:
6 e12/er

STUDENT SPECIAL

) IN FULL

$199 PA

_ OR _
$29 PER MONTH
FOR A FULL SCHOOL YEAR!

0 AIR CONDITIONED FACILITIES

o 30 AEROBICS CLASSES PER WEEK o OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK o

BODY MASTERS EQUIPMENT o HAMMER STRENGTH EQUIP-

MENT o 22 PIECES OF CARDIOVASCULAR EQUIPMENT o PRO
SHOP o TANNING SPECIALS o LOCKERS o SHOWERS

Special ends September 31, call now 464-9060 for club tour!

 

aluminum cans

LAST WORD

5 ‘'5
en
§3E;-
PAGE 6 E 2
SEPTEMBER 27, 1999 g
At’l 1W  
By Kevin MCManemin Huh. . I i _ Art) where we’d spend the day star- percent (don’t.make me do the math) Johnston (of the woefully unfunny
EGGNOG ENTHUSIAST Maybe Glllllanl has apolnt. mg at a painting of a big blue square of the population had access to mus1- sitcom Third Rock from the Sun )not < 0 >

I know what a bunch ofqyoung
hipsters we all are at W&L and how
deeply we’re concerned about the art
world and its. . . no, I’m sorry, Ithought
I could deliver that with a straight face
but it didn’t work. I mean come on,
most of you people’s idea of fine art is
the bear painting on the Kodiak dip
can.

But let us imagine for a moment that
we are artistically “hip” and “with it”
enough that when we hear the words
“MOMA” or “Dada” we think of the
art world and not our parents.

It might concern us, then, that
Mayor Rudy “Kingpin” Giuliani tl1reat-
ened to withhold $7 million in funding
from the Brooklyn Museum of Art in
one of the worst cases of censorship
since last week at the Phi ofﬁce when
the executive editor wouldn’t even let
me say “<censored>” in my column.

The artist under ﬁre this time is up-
and-coming British painter Chris Oﬁli,
winner of last year’s prestigious
Turner Grant of £20,000 (that’s, like,
$35,000 in real money). As noted by
the BBC news online, “Giuliani is par-
ticularly offended by Chris Oﬁli’s
painting The Holy Virgin Mary, which
incorporates his trademark elephant
dung.”

Now I’m not offended by religious
mockery; in fact, I think we need much
more of it in our society. I am, how-
ever, offended by the phrase “his
trademark elephant dung.” HIS
TRADEMARK ELEPHANT DUNG!

First of all, what kind of bizarre
trademark ofﬁce would you have to
go to to patent that? And second of
all, what are the possible aesthetically
pleasing aspects of elephant dung?
Painting with animal feces is like mak-
ing music with bagpipes —— it’sjust a
bad idea, OK?

The most truly offensive thing
about this exhibit, though, is the fact
that it’s not even remotely original. The
religious imagery + biological waste =
easy shock value equation has been
well-mined in the art world, memora-
bly with Andres Serrano’s “Piss
Christ,” a cruciﬁx suspended in a jar
of urine.

Hey, does anybody remember the
days when art used to be about mak-
ing objects of timeless beauty, rather
than just relieving yourself in a jar?
But then again, what do I know? My
only experience with the art world was
through the yearly compulsory sub-
urban-Jersey-kid school ﬁeld trips to
MOMA, (that stands for, of course,
Mammothly Overpriced Mediocre

and trying to ﬁgure out why in the
name of holy hell that canvas is now
worth more than a Ferrari.

I think we’ve all looked at modern
art at one time or an-
other and said the
same four words: “I
could do this” (or ‘
one of its popular
variations, “my two-
year-old nephew
could do this” or “my
retarded Golden Re-
triever could do
this”). And that, es-
sentially, is the prob-
lem with the art
world. It’s just too
easy for people to
follow their dreams
these days.

It’s not just the vi-
sual arts that are suf-
fering. Thanks to
word processors,
writing the Great American Novel no
longer requires years of dedication and
hard work. Anyone with a couple of
weekends to spare could churn out an-
other sappy, ill-plotted Oprah’s Book
Club special and ﬁnd their way to the
top of the NY Times Bestseller list.

In Bach’s day, maybe 1/2 ofl/3 of]

Never trust your mother

By Geoff White

THIRD YEAR FRESHMAN

pass, you can’t come in the state. Now
get in the bath.” Amazing!
“What if you come by plane?”

Ok, let’s get this straight. Since I’m
going to be making fun of each and
every one of you throughout the year,
(Editor ’s note: not bloody likely) say-
ing things like this year’s freshman are
even worse looking than last year’s,
etc., I ﬁgured it would only be fair to
share a story with you. A very, very,
embarrassing story.

I was about eight years old when I
took my ﬁrst trip to Florida, the land of
sunshine and illegal aliens. A few days
before we left, my mother told me to
get in the bath because I was so ﬁlthy,
they wouldn’t even let me in the state.
“Really? They can keep you from en-
tering Florida if you’re not clean?” I
asked my dear mother.

“Yes,” she said. “They have a
clean-check at the border. If you don’t

This week we tried to
answer the age-old question:

“They won’t let you out of the air-
port if you’re not clean,” she replied.

“What if you come by boat?”

“The Coast Guard checks you
when you come in to dock,” mummy
dearest replied. Since we have yet to
master teleportation, this avenue was
not discussed. It could mean serious
enforcement problems in the future. . .

Anyway, the big day came and we
drove down to Florida, the land of sun-
shine and really smelly cities. And
since we were on the interstate, there
was a rest stop right past the state line.
Mom told me and dad to wash our
hands “just in case,” while she went
in to the welcome center. Unbe-
knownst to me, while dad and I were
preparing to face the inspection, my
kind and loving

mother was in the welcome center brib-
ing the orange juice girl behind the
counter to perform a clean check.

I came out of the bathroom, and
walked inside, went through the line,
and bravely stood at the counter while
about two dozen incredulous tourists
watched, stupefied. The young
woman my mother had spoken to, with
all formality, proceeded to make sure
my teeth were brushed, that my ﬁn-
gernails were not dirty, and that my
ears were clean, all the while ﬁling out
imaginary paperwork behind her
counter. When she was done, she said
“I guess you’re okay. Welcome to
Florida. Would you like grapefruit juice
or orange juice?”

With that out of the way, all of you
should know that if I can say some-
thing like this about myself, I can say
anything I want to about y’all. So
watch out!

0mxmh»l7i5

 

Chris Oﬁli’s “Bag of
Sh**,” posing as a work
of art.

cal training. Today, at this very mo-
ment, there are 25,433,643 idiot kids
strumming out Zeppelin tunes on their
bargain-basement Stratocasters and
dreaming unrealistic
dreams of rock
supersta_rdom.
Jimmy Page must be
rolling over in his

grave. (Editor ’s
note.‘ Jimmy Page
has technically

been dead since
1977 when the last
of his original inter-
nal organs gave
out).

Thanks to “The
Blair Witch Project,”
you can be certain
that ﬁlm festivals ev-
erywhere are about
to be deluged with
thousands of poorly
produced backyard
ﬁlms from AV club dorks and their as-
piring-actor friends. And thanks to
Multiculturalism, now we’re supposed
to like all sorts of crappy ethnic art as
well. Pardon me for not buying into
the “Latin explosion,” but Ricky Mar-
tin and that Enrique Iglesias guy suck
in any language.

Democracy is bad enough as a po-
litical system, but there’s just no way
its tenets belong in the art world. Sorry
Jefferson, but everyone is NOT cre-
ated equal. Mozart was writing sym-
phonies by the time most of his peers
were still toilet training. Art is predi-
cated on the fact that ability is rare
and talent rarer, and that genius is the
most rareriest thing of all. (Hold on, let
me check that dictionary. . .) Yes, it’s
not “fair” that some people are just
better at things than others, but if life
was “fair” then OJ would be dead,
wouldn’t he?

For me, I think the ﬁnal nail in the
cofﬁn of culture came during the ﬁve
minutes of the Emmy awards I man-
aged to catch this year. Kristen

only actually won an award, but went
on to tearfully acknowledge the writ-
ers and producers of the show as “true
geniuses.” Now, I may not be the ﬁnal
authority on what is and isn’t art, but
I can say with certainty that no one
involved in the production of the show
“Third Rock from the Sun” remotely
deserves the “genius” moniker.

Everytime we misuse the word “ge-
nius” to describe some Hollywood
hack, we take a little bit away from the
Shakespeares, Chopins and Cezannes,
the Michelangelos, Mozarts and
Miltons who actually stepped up to
the plate and hit a few out of the park
in the name of art. When our society
loses all conception of the word “ge-
nius” then art becomes meaningless,
everyone can do it and the only ones
who gain notoriety at all are those who
resort to the shock value of cheap, el-
ephant—dung slinging gimicks.

Well, I know what you’re all think-
ing at this point. You’re
thinking “Screw all this art
crap. Where the hell did
that guy get elephant
dung from, anyway?”
Good question. Accord-
ing to www.illumin.co.uk,
“Oﬁli ﬁrst began to use el-
ephant dung in his paint-
ings during a six weeks’
scholarship in Zimbabwe. ,
On his return to England
he continued to use it and
obtained supplies from
obliging animals in a cir-
cus in Berlin and in Lon-
don and Whipsnade
zoos.”

I don’t know exactly
what they mean by “oblig-
ing the animals” either. In
any case, the point is that
next time you look at a
painting and say “this
isn’t art, this is a piece of
sh* *,” remember that you
may be right on- both
counts.

Come on, people, let's get
that number up! This is just
embarrassing. We can do
better — I know we can!

insulted this week:
——modern artists
—Ricky Martin &
Enrique Iglesias
—Rudy 
—anyone involved in the
production of the show
“Third Rock ﬁom the Sun”
—democracy
—Oprah’ s book club
-‘——AV club dorks
——Jimmy Page
—bagpipe “music”

Chris Oﬁli’s “The Holy Virgin Mary.”
Funny that there could be so much
controversy over such a stupid, ugly,
utterly unremarkable painting.

CHOOSING THE RIGHT
RETIREMENT COMPANY MAKES
ALL THE DIFFERENCE.

which is more popular at
W&L — beer or herpes? ,

Both can make a strong » ‘
case:

Surprisingly low expenses
TIAA-CREF's operating costs are among
the lowest in the insurance and mutual

F or over 80 years, TL’-\A—CREF has

The other  meat Oh no been the leading retirement company
wait, dude, that’s pork. Ha ha ha ha ha

ha ha ha ha ha ha ha I said pork, yo,

IIBI‘|!BS

on America's campuses. But experience is

just one reason why so many smart fund industries.2 So more of your money

investors trust us with their ﬁnancial

Q distributed ditto that’s hilarious. Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha H goes where it should _ toward ensuring

3 ha oh man I’m hungry. Anyone got any future. ere are a few morei your fumm ;t
3 freely at frat Doritos?

Q part'e_s ad paid for by your local drug council Superior strength Easy diversiﬁcation

1

l

l

With over $250 billion in assets under man- We Offer a wide Variety of expertly

agement, TIAA-CREF is the world’s largest
retirement organization — and among the

, causes many
.  embarrassing
g trips to the
 infirmary

managed investment options to help build 5
your assets. We make it simple, too, with

 yﬂ .d W0  stock, bond, money market, real estate,
c. 1866’
.7 .r/3eo/an0/.$rea£/as/

gfonras  Csafa/s, gnnfeeper

most solid. It's one of the reasons why
Momingstar says, “TIAA-CREF sets the
standard in the ﬁnancial services industry.”

and guaranteed options.

Unrivaled service

We believe that our service distinguishes

fun that night;
hurts the next
morning"

Solid, long—term
performance

us from every other retirement company.

In the most recent Dalbar survey, y
TIAA-CREF ranks tops in participation
satisfaction.3

Call today to ﬁnd out how TIAA—
CREF can help you build the ﬁnancial '

future you want and deserve.

97Q]no/ia Jfouse is anﬂzs/ozicﬁomefoca/eJ11r2 We seek out long-term opportunities that

/ﬁe fear] 0/éiexitzy/on, Uzkyzhzh. 96):» a deaf
anJ6‘rea[/‘as/, Yﬂynofia J/ouse oﬂers a uaz-ie(y
o/yues/sui/es anJrooms, aff w17£ priua/e fa/As.
.7£e fouse ts wa/[Izzy 0/11:/ance/com a oarie/y 0/
sfops, res/auran/s, museums, anJseve(-afpoin/s
ofin/eres/, as we// as Zﬂjasginy/on ant/6)ee
Q[n1'oers17y am//5e vﬂythzh 77Gﬁ7aty gns/1711/e. , A

best  your other companies, in pursuit of quick gains,

parents don’t
know about it

often miss. Though past performance can't

guarantee future results, this patient philos-

_. .-. .........a.........~_-n. ......-

ophy has proven extremely rewarding.

To ﬁnd out more — give us W
a call or visit our website

1 800 842-2776

This week’s telephone poll question: Do
you have herpes?

100% .501 <3. 77(a/n cS/ree/ Ensuring the future . 9‘ . f
none of Bexinylm’ 09] 24450 for those who shape it. www.t1aa—cre .OI'g ‘
Y0“? 6—n1ai[‘ tnayna/1'21 @roc£5r1?Jje. ne/
9* * *  Zﬂ)e6‘si/e: ma no/iafauseinn. com
7
b - ‘Mam/mgur l’u-taalmmulus/1.0%, 6/30/99. 2$mn¢ad&Pu-élimuukamghngvng 1999; ma Llpper Analytical Serv|oes.Inc.,[.Ipper-DIrvcrors'AIAalytl¢zlDa!a,1999(quunerly).
u S I ness T5011 e: (540) 463-2567 3DALBAR.1nc.. Iailnmdca-nomunmﬂuzlbukawp For more compnuu mro.-mum, lndudlng charges and expenses, all 1 800 342-2733. ext. 5509, for CREF and TIAA Real Estate
Accoum pvupectuacs. Read them canfully before you wax or send vmney. TIAA-CREF Inamuui mi lmtltutlonal Services distributes CREF certiﬁcates and Interests In the TIAA Rul
70/] 9ree.- I —d’77—35.5—4664 ;=_..... ,i...,...._ r

8/99

margin of error: 4% gait.‘ (540) 463-4353

We/br cret/17 can/s are acce/2/ea/.

