 

VOLUME 102, NO. 3

Freshmen serve in N abors’

Freshman Leadership Council organizes day of
community service to honor Jonathan Nabors

By Max Smith

STAFF WRITER

Community service and a brief
ceremony marked the passage of the
ﬁrst annual Jonathan Nabors Memo-
rial Day.

The Freshman Leadership Coun-
cil sponsored theday of service in
memory of Nabors, a freshman at
Washington and Lee University who
was killed in a Jan. 3 car accident re-
turning to school following Christ-
mas break.

Most who participated gained a
feeling of satisfaction from doing so,
and felt that the message of the day
was a worthy one.

“It was deﬁnitely a success and
we hope to make it an annual event,”
freshman Stacy McLoughlin said.

McLoughlin estimated that more
than 100 freshman participated in the
various activities that made up the
service day.

, Following brunch in the BDG
Quad, the day kicked offwith a cer-
emony honoring Nabors. Freshman
class president Grant Dickson wel-
comed the group and introduced the
speakers; Dean Mark Dalhouse and

. Nabors’ roommate Mike Reynold.

The class also presented Mrs.
Nabors, Jonathan’s mother, with
ﬂowers and a tree honoring Nabors
was planted in front of Baker dorm.

Nabors’ mother, father, and aunt at-
tended the ceremony. They said they
plan to return for every future ser-
vice day.

Following the ceremony, volun-
teers left for various community ser-
vice activities. Students helped out
at the Food Pantry for Rockbridge
Area Relief Association, Yellowbrick
Road Daycare Center, and
Boxerwood Gardens. Others helped
at a Big Buddy/Little Buddy ﬁeld day,
featuring events including soccer
and slip n’ slide. 9

Freshman Will Atkinson traveled
with a group to Glasgow to help an
elderly woman clean up her “unruly”
shrubs. Afterwards, they talked with
the woman for an hour on topics
ranging from the weather to the time
she and her husband cleared the
trees off their plot to build the
house.

“You could tell we brightened up
her day,” Atkinson said. “She en-
joyed the company.”

Freshman Matthew Marks be-
lieves Jonathan would have been
pleased with the turnout and overall
success ofthe day. Marks spent Fri-
day night with Nabors’ family.

“.lonathan’s family was impressed
and really appreciated the gesture,”
Marks said. “Mr. Nabors said he’d
bring gloves and work clothes for
next year’s service day.”

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

Ultra ilttng-tum {ﬂirt

Sophomores Allison Bruneau (left) and Virginia Brumby,

   

Photo by Emily Bames/ Photo Editor

Senior David Sugerman shows his form at the Habitat for Humanity Bowl-a-thon at Lex Lanes.

Chief Justice Rehnquist to speak

By Dan Grattan

NEWS EDITOR

More than 100 prospective lawyers
will venture out from the conﬁnes of
the W&L community this Sunday with
a send-off from the top judicial ﬁgure
in the land.

I,.The Honorable William H.
Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the U.S.

‘ Supreme Court will deliver the address

at the Washington and Lee University

School of Law commencement this
Sunday at 2:30 on the lawn in front of
the Lee House.

Before presiding over the Senate
impeachment trial of President Bill
Clinton, Rehnquist served as an as-
sociate justice ofthe Supreme Court
for 14 years, from 1972-1986. He was
named chief justice in 1986 under ad-
ministration of former President
Ronald Reagan. He was appointed by
President Nixon as assistant attorney

general, ofﬁce of legal counsel, in
1969.

This marks Rehnquist’s second ofﬁ-
cial visit to the W&L law school in re-
cent years. He delivered the keynote ad-
dress at the dedication of the Lewis F.
Powell Jr. Archives in the spring of I 992.

The commencement ceremony will
begin at 2:30 p.m. on the lawn in front
of Lee House. In the event of rain, the
ceremony will be held in the Warner
Center.

 

MONDAY, MAY 10, 1999

memory

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
and freshman Richard Bendall share a watery bonding moment with 5-
year-old Walter Styles during an outing for community Big Buddys. This was one of the activities for “Serving in Memory,”
sponsored by the Freshman Leadership Council.

Buffalo Creek Music

By Dan Grattan

NEWS EDITOR

Fear not spring term junkies, the
annual Buffalo Creek Music Festival
is coming this weekend to Zollman’s
Pavilion, and it is going to be great
as usual. 1

“Buffalo Creek is going to be run
exactly as it always has been,” Di-
rector of Student Activities Owen
Barker said. “It won’t be run like this
year’s Halloween party at Zo1lman’s,
and it’s going to be a blast.”

There will be three stages for
bands this year, two outside and one
inside the pavilion. According to
Chris Noland, who is the main orga-
nizer ofthe event, there will be one
difference in the format this year.

“We are only going to have one
band on Friday night this year,”
Noland said. “There is a reasonably
small group of people who generally
make it out for the ﬁrst night, and

they are usually busy setting up

their ﬁres and camps.”

According to Barker, this year’s
event should prove to be another
great one, and only improved be-

Generals lax earn NCAA ﬁrst round bye

By Ryan Gielen

STA FF WRITER

The road to Byrd Stadium, the site
of the NCAA Finals is set, and this
year it goes right through Lexington.

Last night the Generals were re-

7 , warded a ﬁrst round bye in the up-

coming NCAA Tournament thanks
to a regular season record of 13-1

Overall and 6-0 in conference. They‘
share the extra week of rest and prac-

» tice with Gettysburg, Washington

College, and Salisbury State, who
also received ﬁrst round byes.

5,‘ The Generals ﬁrst game of the
Toumament will be the quarterﬁnals
on May 16th here in Lexington
against the winner of Denison vs.
Ohio-Wesleyan. Wesleyan, remem-
ber, is the team responsible for

A knocking the Generals out of the

playoffs in the quarterﬁnals last sea-
son. The Battling Bishops came to
Lexington last year and dominated
W&L, 17-8.

Denison may be the favorite in the
ﬁrst round contest, however, as they

defeated OWU earlier this year, 14-9.
Also, the Big Red may be looking for
some revenge of their own against the
Generals. W&L beat Denison in the
ﬁrst round of the NCAA’s last year,
16-13 on Wilson Field.

Ifthe Generals were to win their
opener and advance to the Semiﬁ-
nals on May 23rd, chances are they
will face either Salisbury State or
Hampden Sydney for rights to ad-
vance to the finals.

Salisbury State is an athletic team
who scores a lot of goals and may

' match up well with W&L. Last week,

Salisbury beat Washington College,
who is the only team that the Generals
have lost to all season.

On the other hand, the Generals
had a hard-won battle against
Hampden Sydney just three weeks
ago, emerging victorious 9-6.
Hampden-Sydney is a possible sec-
ond round opponent for the Generals,
as well.

On the other side of the bracket, #5
Nazareth will have quite a difficult time
getting to the championship game for

the fourth consecutive time, as they
will have to defeat 1 1-2 R.l.T. and top
ranked Gettysburg just to get to the
semi—ﬁnals, where they would face
another tough opponent.

Look for Middlebury (who is 6-1
against top 20 opponents) or Wash-
ington College to upset the top half
of the bracket and challenge the Gen-
erals for the championship.

Fans? Rouun QuAn1znrIMALs s:uIrIuAn.u r.n4._

MAY I2 MAV I5 MAV 22 MA: 30
'6 1' IBURG
(I3-2)

'NA:AR£7N ,

(I I-2)
_:B—'£a__
(I I-2)
-uéﬁunasrgn ‘
( I-2)

on 0:474 ‘

(IO~2)
' II: unv
H24) j:---—..
-
1
(14-1)

vn ac
(1l-4)

'H:=:v§\'g
(IO~3)

‘WAIM Q  ‘
(I3-ll
onto n§=ktlA=‘

(I2-3)

‘OINIION

lIl~2)

‘NONI YIAII

cause of the funding provided by
Washington and Lee University
through the SAB. Barker says that
the SAB money helps tremendously
in bringing more quality acts to the
festival.

“The bit of money that the school
provided will just make the show that
much better,” said Barker.

So get your tents and lawn chairs
ready for another two days of love
and music in Lexington, because the
bands this year are going to be fan-
tastic.

Many of the better bands to play
at W&L in recent years will be found
at Buffalo Creek this year, along with
a few new additions that will add
depth to the great lineup that Noland
has put together. Bands like Agents

M4

Fest to rock Zollman’s

of Good Roots and Zen Tricksters
willjoin with the Ominous Sea Pods,
Zion Wave and Disco Biscuts on
Saturday. W&L student band Barclay
Honeywood will kickoff the long list
of acts on Saturday.

One of the best parts of spring
term is going to happen again this
year, but according to Noland, it will
take the continued support of the
Greek system and the W& L student
body to keep going strong in future
years.

“The festival is funded through
fraternity and sorority donations. as
well as t-shirt sales,” Noland said.
“We got twelve fraternities and one
sorority to give money this year, and
i hope that will keep going strong in
the future.”

Friday, May 14
10 p.m.

Saturday, May 15
12 - 1:30
1:30 - 3:00
3:00 - 5:00
5:00 - 6:00
6:00 - 7:30
7:30 — 8:30
8:30 - 10
10:30 - ?

1999 Buffalo Creek schedule

Emma Gibbs Band

Barclay Honeywood
Humunculous
Zen Tricksters
Zion Wave, set 1
Agents of Good Roots
Zion Wave, set 2
Ominous Sea Pods
Disco Biscuits

May 10, 1999

OPINION:

W&L1FE:

SPORTS:

@112 ﬁling-tum iﬁhi

Nudity, response from C0

Prof. Ray phases retirement

Proﬁles and more lax

PAGE 2

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

 

rt
’/

MAY iii 1999

@112 iﬂing-tum lﬂlii

OPINION

PAGE 2

ZSTAFF Where have you gone, Joe DiMaggio?

lEDlITORIAl[.,

Now for an unwanted rant on an oft-discussed topic -
procrastination.

The act of delaying any necessary action or task is
looked upon in academic and business circles as a nega-
tive thing. We here at the Phi, however, feel that procras-
tination may be one of the greatest classes offered at any
college. During a lengthy session of procrastination, a
student may learn more in their wanderings than they
would in a classroom setting.

So in order to facilitate your next session of putting
things off, we would like to offer this list ofthings avail-
able to every student that can help you waste a whole
bunch oftime, and perhaps learn a lot as well.

You can: clean your room, check e-mail, look on the
web (check out www.procrastinators.com, it’s not done
yet but someone will get to it sometime soon), ﬂoss, bal-
ance your checkbook, talk to an elderly person (they have
better stories than anyone else), do dishes, go to Wal-
Mart (why not?), develop a sudden and overwhelming
interest in the appearance of your toenails, drink a 40, fall
asleep outside (only applicable during spring term), moni-
tor the progress of your favorite stocks on the CNBC
NYSE ticker (can be done while drinking a40), watch the
remains of four acres of pine forest burn in a controlled
ﬁre, watch the Colonnade Cam for an hour or two, write to
the Kevin McManemin fan club, sing with Radio-man,
play nasty pranks at lunch time involving a piece of chalk
and tires of cars parked along Washington Street, grab a
hammer and help out Habitat for Humanity’s latest project,
learn to ﬂy ﬁsh, analyze the lyrics to a song by the New
Kids on the Block or the plot line of a Brian Bosworth ﬁlm,
call a relative that you have not talked to in quite some
time, or walk around and single-handedly reinstitute the
speaking tradition.

Ifprocrastination did not exist, many things would be
different in all of our lives. First, this editorial might have
been funny. But also, we would not have gained much of
the valuable, if not useless information that we currently
possess. So keep putting everything off as long as pos-
sible, it may turn out to be the best thing you haven’t
done all day.

  

ote of the Week:

“He slimed me.”

— Anonymous sophomore girl making
an observation at Sigma Nu’s ‘Shipwrecked’

Party.

)2

They say that children need role models. I’m not ex-
actly certain who “they” is; I’m pretty sure it’s the same
omniscient “they” that say broccoli is good for you, don’t
swim for an hour after eating and never put salt in your
eyes. I have the sneaking suspi-
cion that “they” is the guy from
that ridiculous “wear sunscreen”
song.

But that’s neither here nor
there. (Actually, it’s definitely
there, but that’s neither here nor there either). The point
is that kids need role models, and in our unheroic age role
models are about as hard to come by as well-spoken Jerry
Springer guests.

In their inﬁnite wisdom, “they” say parents should be
children’s best role models. But in an age when divorce is
more common than ﬁghts on the Springer show, (sorry
for all the Springer gags, they were having a clearance
sale down at the comedy warehouse) the only contact
most kids have with their parents is through a monthly
child support check. And in an age when skipping child
support is as popular as lesbian stripper love triangles
on Springer (sorry), even that’s kind of iffy.

Back in the day kids didn’t need to look up to their
parents. Kids had real heroes like John F. Kennedy, Mickey

  

- »~\§ .

Spring term much
ado about nothin’

} I’m Not British
 Kevin Mdvlanemin ’00

Mantle and the Babe to idolize. Today we’ve got Teddy
Kennedy, Albert Belle and the entire NBA. Of course,
this disillusionment isn’t necessarily a bad thing. It turns
out Mantle and Ruth were both drunks, and when JFK
wasn’t cheating on his wife he was
secretly starting a war in Vietnam.
Anytime you elevate someone to hero
status, you can be sure they’ll only
disappoint.

Where have you gone, Joe
DiMaggio? He’s in the bathroom popping pills as his
wife Marilyn Monroe is out i"‘**ing the president.

No, our children don’t need heroes. What they need
are some good enemies.

Think about it. Nations work best when they’re ﬁght-
ing against somebody else. A people are never more uni-
ﬁed than when they’re marching off to war. If we want our
children to learn to work hard and work together, don’t
give them some hollow role models to blindly follow like
a ﬂock of sheep. Pick some other country or minority
group, spread the happy little seeds of hate and watch
the miracle of human nature take over.

You know, the other day I was talking about this with
my Russian mail—order bride Svetlana. I don’t speak Rus-
sian and neither of us speak particularly good English,

but we agreed on one thing: our nations were a lot hap-
pier when they had each other to hate.

“Svetlana, dear,” I said, “When I was a kid we were
always afraid you Krazy Kommies were going to nuke
us.”

“Green card come today,” she responded. “I leaving
you now.”

“And it turns out most of your nukes were just hol-
lowed out shells, but we still spent hundreds of billions of
dollars that we could have used to solve all our social

problems trying to compete with your empty shell produc- ‘-

tion, only to scrap most of our nukes in a bunch of worth-
less treaties in the eighties anyway. Boy, it sure is funny
how things work out sometimes, eh, darling? Darling?”

I don’t know where Svetlana went, probably to the
store, but when she gets back I think we’ll talk about
raising our children (we’ve already decided on names:
Yuri and Samantha). When the kids are old enough I’m
going to teach them about the godless Chinese who are"
responsible for all the problems of the world. Then I’ll
watch them shake themselves from the apathetic slumber
so many kids go through life with, and smile with pride as
my children attack the world with the energy of an en-
raged lesbian on Jerry Springer (sorry, but at those prices
I couldn’t afford not to buy the Springer gags).

\ ’.‘+/KT? My wife/I’ W/LL /</us.

(Ellie ‘tiling-tum iﬂlii

Executive Editor Polly Doig
Associate Editor Hollister Hovey
News Editor Dan Grattan

Elianna Marziani
Ginger Phillips
Frances Groberg
Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin
Heather McDonald
Emily Barnes

Ali Soydan

W&Life Editors

Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Last Word Editor
Copy Editor

Photo Editor

Online Editor

Erica Prosser
Sarah Meldrum

Senior Editors

Jason Williams
Matt Lorber
Lionel Brown

Business Manager
Advertising Directors
Circulation Director

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editors, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring—tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “Talkback"‘ do not
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Ofﬁce: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://w1u.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

For twenty-four academic weeks it’ s
all we talk about. We watch snowﬂakes
fall, pound keyboards furiously in
darkened dorms, beg Mom and Dad
to replenish our Domino’s Depression
funds and wonder how 12 measly cred-
its could ever bring so much misery.
We dream sleep-deprived dreams of
the light at the end of the tunnel:
spring term.

Ah, that time .-
when students '
roll leisurely out
of bed for that
one class that
wouldn’t think of beginning before
noon, lounge lazily in the Front Lawn
sun, and guzzle beer luxuriously in

  

-— Goshen.-:   

Well, welcome to reality. Turns out
that one class is a hated gen-ed must,
begins at 8 a.m., has a 14 hour lab twice
a week, a mandatory attendance policy,
one of those profs who got tenure
back during the Civil War when cor-
poral punishment was cool, and a maxi-
mum grade of a C-.

Those students lazing on the Front
Lawn are calculatingly maximizing their
time by combining studying and tan-
ning, because who has time for both?
They’ ll smile tightly if you stop to say
hi, but they’re really thinking that the
ten minutes you spend socializing will
have to be taken out of dinner, which
will now consist of raw ramen. Oh, and
those dudes guzzling beer at Goshen
are sure gonna get theirs. Heh.

For the rest of us, the sun comes
out, as does the nauseating mix of
bright white limbs and fake tans. You
know who you are. And the only guz-
zling to be heard immediately follows
the cracking of a can of Slim-Fast as

wYankee<loodle-doo
 Polly Doig ’OO

we make up for a winter spent hiber-
nating around the heat of that
Domino’s box.

After much ado spring term arrives
and for roughly 380 seniors, minus ev-
erybody graduating with an Ernest
Williams degree and a nine-ﬁgure start-
ing salary, this means entering a con-
trolled panic. Anyone wishing instan-
taneous death
has only to
ask one ques-
tion, “gotta
job yet?”

The dream
that a W&L degree guarantees them a
place in society’s elite is over, and the
realization that Welfare is substantially
more proﬁtable than any of the incom-
ing job offers has hit. Instead of ﬁgur-
ing out how to attract employers’ at-
tention with sparkling resumes, soon-
to-be-grads are printing up “Will ex-
pound virtues of Kierkegaard for Natty
Light” signs in a sexy font and prac-
ticing the Phrase of the Future... “Do
ya want fries with that?”

Yes, once upon a time there was a
dream of a relaxing six weeks in April
and May. It was a pretty little dream,
and now lies broken amongst a ﬂurry
of midterms that came two weeks into
the term, allergies, interviews, and ’
last-minute arrangements to ﬁnd some-
thing useful to do with the summer.
We now recognize that spring term is
simply a guise to trap us into three
extra weeks of school. The only differ-
ence would seem to be the overwhelm-
ing sense of apathy with which we go
about cramming eight weeks of leam-
ing into six. Nobody cares.

I don’t care. Maybe somebody else
will ﬁnish this damn editorial...

MV€4,2/

4/’  '\

Memories of Buffalo Creek...

I

Baring all stops pedestrians, not war,

JAMES G. LEYBUFIN l..ll3RAFlY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVFHSII V
LEXONGTON. VA 24450

“Five women bare all in Madrid to protest war,” the
headline read. Apparently people who were lined up to
pay taxes in Madrid were treated to ﬁve women, covered
in brown paint, who shouted anti-Slobodan Milosevic
and anti-NATO slogans. After 15 minutes, the women
put their clothes back on and were escorted out by secu-
rity.

Nakedness protesting rampant chaos, destruction and
death? Oh, okay.
Thank goodness

Coffee Talk

you’re doing 
something use—  ' Heather McDonald ‘01
ful. . 

I understand
the concept of using shock as a way to call attention to a
particular cause, but this is really pretty ridiculous. How
is this going to stop any of the war? If I thought by
baring my chest I would provide a home for 100 refugees,
I wouldn’t hesitate to tear offmy shirt. But all that really
happened was that these ﬁve women called attention to
themselves and not their cause.

Lately, personal fame seems to be more ofa motiva-
tion for protest against injustice than the actual desire to
better the situation. Think back to about a year ago when
a group of students from American University were de-
tained in Myanmar (Burma) after passing out pro-democ-
racy pamphlets. The 17 or so students were thrown into
prison for violating Myanmar’s totalitarian laws. The en-
tire event became a media circus, with the leader ofthe
group declaring that they would continue to ﬁght totali-
tarianism and how they weren’t really afraid because they
knew that the United States would get them out eventu-
ally.

There’s nothing wrong with ﬁghting totalitarianism. I

rather like the idea. However, these students don’t seem
to understand that their joyride to Burma and a Burmese
prison may have resulted in Burmese citizens being harmed
for accepting their pamphlets. Again, what happened was
not magniﬁcent change but a media-fest celebrating the
protesters as celebrities.

Was anything done? No. Was anything changed? No.
Was any goal reached? No, unless the goal of the pro-

testers was to gain fame for themselves.

Noble causes are wonderful. lt’s even more wonder-
ful when people take up noble causes because they care
about the cause and want to make a difference. But if you
want to stop the war or free a nation, it’s going to take a
lot more than getting naked. Fifteen minutes of fame for
yourself under the guise ofa noble cause isn’t going to

feed a starving child.

Dear Editor,

I am writing in response to Kevin
McManemin’s April 26" column about
the Columbine High School shooting.
I am an alumnus and a teacher in the
area and I care deeply about tragedies
like this one. I also care about how we
shold react so something this horrible
will not happen again. I feel that Mr.
McManemin’s remarks are definitely
not the right solution.

I am particularly offended by his
statements about Christianity. He
stated that “Judeo-Christian moral-
ity has been around a long time and...
it hasn’t worked all that swimmingly.”
Personally, I haven’t seen a whole lot

V of morality or Judeo-Christian ethics

taught by Hollywood or our political
leaders. Have you? Mr. McManemin

LETTER To THE EDITOR

McManemin hatemail continues

goes on to blame Christianity for the
Spanish Inquisition and the Crusades.
This is bogus. You cannot blame a faith
for the grevious mistakes of some
deeply disturbed individuals. Our
leader, Jesus Christ, strived for and
even died for peace and happiness
among all people. Furthermore, I chal-
lenge anyone to find anywhere in the
Bible where God said for us to kill
people for His sake. Again, I cannot
emphasize how ridiculous this is.
Finally, and most importantly, Kevin
McManemin’s stupid remark “Hey
let’s teach kids about Jesus! Yeah,
great. Maybe instead of opening ﬁre
on jocks, they’ll just shoot up abor-
tion clinics instead,” was in very bad
taste and offends all Christians. Jesus
said in Matthew 5244 “Love your en-

emies, bless them that curse you, do
good to them that hate you, and pray
for them which despitefully use you
and persecute you,” and in John
15:17 “These things I command you,
that you love one another.” Does Mr.
McManemin really think that Christ
would therefore call for such horrors

as these mentioned? Is he really that “'

insensitive to make such a statement
in response to the Colorado tragedy
and others like it?

The way to deal with the Colum-
bine shooting is with love, under-
standing and vigilance to prevent it
happening again. Not with sarcastic,
offensive and insensitive remarks.
Thank you.

Sincerely,

Shawn Osolin ’94

X

 

MAY 10, 1999

W&

 

@1112 itiing-Glam ilﬂhi

IFE

PAGE 3 ,4

All’s well that ends Well: Ray says goodbye

By Eliarma Marziani
FEA TURES EDITOR

An annual Christmas card with a picture
of a moving van on it — Professor George
Ray grew up in a family that moved 11 times
in 16 years. Ray’s life has been full of changes,
the current one perhaps one ofthe larger ones
in his life. After serving the university as an
English professor for 35 years, Ray is enter-
ing phased retirement and will completely re-
tire after two years.

George Ray was born on December 4, 1932,
in Binghamtoii, New York. Far from ponder-
ing “To be or not to be?”, Ray wanted to be a
farmer when he grew up. He enjoyed haying,
threshing oats, and cutting corn, was think-
ing of attending Cornell and going into sci-
entific farming, and was all set to be a new
and improved “Old MacDonald.”

The Fates, though, had weaved different
plans for Ray. He ended up attending
Wesleyan University, where Professor Keith
Huntress led Ray on a tour guide through
T.S. Eliot’s “The Wasteland” in a sophomore
English class, and Ray liked it so much that

v he did not want to leave. Hejoined a bunch

of his friends and Chi Psi fraternity broth-
ers in becoming an English major. He even-
tually went on to receive both his masters
degree and Ph.D. in English language and
literature at the University of Rochester. First,
however, he needed to do his duty for the
Country.

For about 25 years in the middle of the
century (1948-1973), there was a peacetime
draft which required that any men who were
drafted serve in the military for a few years to
fill empty slots. This idea is totally foreign to
the current generation. However, a military
draft, for both peacetime and wartime, did ex-

Bye-bye I'€d €y€Z allergy I'€li€f May 21, 22, 24,1999 - 9 pm

By Erica Prosser
SEN/0R EDITOR

You may not see it right away, but there is
a thin layer of powder on your car. There’s
also a thin layer on the sidewalk. In fact, this
light powder is everywhere. And it may ex-

” plain why your eyes suddenly itch, why your

nose is running all ofa sudden and why you
find yourselfscurrying to the infirmary in the
search ofrelief.

Welcome to allergy season.

 

What are allergies? Exactly what they
V sound like. Allergies result from your body
having an allergic reaction to an allergen (al-
lergy-causing substance), such a pollen or
dust mites. Your body is reacting to expel the
substance, a reaction that is often called “too
much immunity.” Histamine is one of the

 

Photos courtesy of the Calyx
Then and now: Professor George Ray is

entering phased retirement after 35 years
of teaching English at W&L.

ist in the not-too-distant past.

In 1940, President Franklin Roosevelt ap-
proved the Selective Training and Service Act
of 1940, which created the first peacetime draft
in the United States and founded the Selec-
tive Service System to administer it. From 1948
until 1973, men were drafted to ﬁll positions
for which there were no volunteers. The draft
ended in 1973 and the army became all—vol-
unteer again, yet men are still required to reg-
ister for the draft as a safeguard against un-
expected shortages in the military in emer-
gency conditions.

Ray served as an officer in the marine corps
during the period that followed the Korean
War, from 1954 to 1957. He opted to take of-
ficers’ training, become an officer, and give a
three—year time commitment to the marines
rather thanjust serve as an enlisted man for 2
years.

Though the draft caused Ray to suspend
his education for a few years, it actually ended
up helping his education in the long run. The
monetary help ofthe G.I. Bill helped Ray af-

chemicals produced by your body to combat
allergens, and these chemicals are respon-
sible for the allergicreactions you have.

About 23-30 percent of the population has
these allergic-immune reactions to sub-
stances varying from pollen to food to bee
stings andjust about everything in between.
“Hay fever” is the general term for allergies
in the nose or sinuses, and it is usually what
we mean when we talk about seasonal aller-
gies.

Most sufferers have mild or moderate al-
lergy symptoms that are just an annoyance
or an inconvenience. When histamine is re-
leased all over the body at once, however,
life-threatening symptoms can result. Allergies
are responsible for about 10 million doctor visits
yearly in this country.

So, now that you know what allergies are,
do you have them? General allergy symptoms
include sneezing, runny nose, nasal and si-
nus congestion, sinus headache, fatigue and
itching of the eyes. Symptoms specific to
hay fever include itching ofthe eyes, sneez-
ing, itching of the roof of the mouth, nasal
congestion, sinus headaches and fatigue.

If you really have hay fever and you feel
horrible, what can you do? For starters, avoid
airborne pollen and spores by limiting your
time outside. If you must be outside, time it
right: grass pollinates between 6 a.m. and 10
a.m., so spend outside time in the early after-
noon if grass is your enemy.

If weeds are more your problem, aim out-
side time for the middle ofthe day, as weeds
pollinate at sunrise and sundown. Wind also

ford his masters and doctorate work
at the University of Rochester and
move forward into his career.

He served as an instructor for one
year at the University of Rochester and
then taught at the University of Vir-
ginia from 1962-1964. As he hadn’t
found the support he sought at the
time, Ray began looking for another
position. He learned that Dr. Fitzgerald
Flourney, a Washington and Lee pro-
fessor who was a Rhodes scholar and
what Ray describes as “one of the
greatest teachers of that era,” had died,
and Ray came to take his place. Ray
had some big shoes to fill. While he
claims, “I don’t think I’ve ever filled
them,” many people on campus would beg to
differ.

Senior English major Chris Edwards said,
“I’ve never had him in class, but he knows
my name, and he has always been very nice.”

Senior Chad Reynolds said, “[Ra_v’s] de-
parture marks the transformation of the En-
glish department... it’s sort ofthe beginning
ofthe end of an era.” About Ray’s teaching
style, Reynolds said, “He’s not easy, but he’s
not unjust . . . he makes you work, and he
makes you want to work.”

“Death Ray,” as his students, ex-students,
and any who have heard his reputation for
tough grading jokingly call him, has deﬁnitely
left his mark on the University.

After 35 years at W&L, Ray has seen quite
a few changes. Yet, he maintains that the most
important things have remained the same.

“There are some changes of a cosmetic
nature, but none really of a fundamental na-
ture. . . The [honor] system still works, the
close student-faculty relations, the spirit of
civility, mutual trust, mutual respect: I’d like

increases pollen and spore levels in the air,
so be wary of windy days.

When you drive, keep the windows rolled
up and the air conditioning on. Indoors, keep
your air conditioner or dehumidifier running
to help reduce indoor spore exposure. Fami-
lies with allergy problems should avoid indoor
pets and wall-to-wall carpeting, as well.

Over-the—counter antihistamines can help,
but if your symptoms persist or if you have
excessive sinus drainage and/or fever, con-
sult a doctor immediately; you might have an
infection that needs antibiotic treatment. Pre-
scription medications obtained from your
doctor may also help you battle the allergy
symptoms, but don’t expect them to work
right away; many such drugs need to be in
your system for a while before they take full
effect.

Allergy season is no fun for sufferers, but
there are ways to get relief. Act smart and
talk to a doctor ifyou are miserable. Then go
out and enjoy the gorgeous weather.

       

fﬂallﬂlvlillﬂ
0.5-ofq -I--ghnn
Oluinhivnlrvuoun-lull

mmgﬁ

 

F RAMEWORKS GALLERY

1 N. Main Street, downtown Lexington, Virginia (540) 464-6464

Civil War art and memorabilia
Robert E. Lee 8 Stonewall jackson War Date Documents
W8-L, VMI and Lexington art and collectibles
Limited edition art
Custom ﬂaming

Open:
Monday — Friday
10 a.m. — 6p.m.

Saturday
9 a.m. — 4 p.m.

 

to stress more the continuity at Washington
and Lee.”

Ray feels fortunate to have worked with
several generations of students.

“I regard it as a privilege to have some im-
pact on the development of their intellectual
lives,” Ray said. “I’m also grateful for having
the opportunity to grow as a teacher at a
school in an academic environment that is a
mutually supportive and caring community.
I’ve been blessed to be part of a department
with wonderful teachers and wonderful schol-

ars, and when the time comes for me to step _
aside, I’ll miss that." '

Ray plans to
spend retirement in
Lexington, continuing
research and remain-
ing connected to a
network of former stu-
dents and colleagues,
and occasionally
traveling with his
wife.

0 WILLIAM
-'-=7 SHAKESPEARE

mt COMPLETE
WORKS

 

 

 

T HEA T RE 65' MUSIC presents

“THE BEST OF
ALL POSSIBLE WORLDS”

        
  

  
 

Music by Leonard B
Book by Hugh Wheeler adapted from
Lyrics by Richard

John Latouche & Stephen So

    
 
  

May 23, 1999 - 2 pm

Keller Theatre - Lenfest Center
Tickets and Information 540/463-8000

sales/Mmketimg

Cl7ristian—l)aseb Us company

SEEKS SALES MANAGER TOR ANY
IDCATION IN THE USA. I

——-potei/iticil 3K mom
summeremp t

—j0otenl:iai K I17
eocce or sill?

ewqoloywievit

459-4459

 

PAGE 4

S

Elie filing-tum lﬂlti

PORTS

MAY 10, 1999

Generals sweep ODAC

Team boasts seven All-ODAC players, ODAC Player of the Year, and ODAC
Coach of the Year, as Washington and Lee gears up for the NCAA tournament

By Brendan Harrington
SPORTS WRITER

On Sunday afternoon the Washington and Lee men’s
lacrosse team grabbed a ﬁrst-round bye for the upcoming
NCAA Division III Tournament, but that wasn’t the only
highlight of their week.

The Generals (13-1, 6-0) dominated the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference men’s lacrosse postseason honors
on Thursday and wrapped up the regular season with a 15-
2 pounding ofRando1ph—Macon on Wednesday.

Sophomore attackman Matt Dugan was named the
ODAC Player of the Year and head coach Jim Stagnitta
was named the ODAC Coach of the Year. Overall, seven
Generals were named ﬁrst or second team all-conference.

In his 10 years at W&L, Stagnitta has a lifetime record
of 106-38. Including this season, he has won four ODAC
Championships and has brought the Generals to the NCAA
tournament four times. ,

Dugan led the ODAC in goals (55), assists (26), and
points (81) this year and is just six goals and six points
away from breaking the W&L single-season records for
goals and points.

Dugan was joined on the ﬁrst team by junior attackman
Chris Brown, sophomore midﬁelder Pope Hackney, junior
defensemen Charlie Antrim, and sophomore defensemen
Pete Iwancio.

Junior attackman Colin Dougherty and sophomore
midﬁelder Bernie Norton were second team selections.

On Wednesday afternoon at Wilson Field, the Generals
wrapped up the regular season with their 12th straight win,
a 15-2 thrashing of Randolph-Macon.

With the victory, the Generals ﬁnished undefeated in
the ODAC for the ﬁrst time since 1993.

Dugan led all scorers with three goals and ﬁve assists,
and Dougherty tallied four goals and one assist.

The Generals took a 2-0 lead with 5:55 left in the ﬁrst
quarter on a goal by Dugan, but two minutes later the
Yellow Jackets (9-6, 1-5) struck back with a goal by senior
attackman Dan Carver to cut the Generals’ lead to 2- 1.

But it would be all W&L after that point, as the Generals
scored 13 consecutive goals and held the Yellow Jackets
scoreless for more than 28 minutes. Randolph-Macon
added their second goal with 5:03 remaining in the game to

Econo
Lodge

—Parents’ discount
—Newly renovated

—Free Continental
breakfast

540-463-7371

—Free HBO with remote
—No smoking rooms

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

No room for debate: the men’s lacrosse team closed their ODAC Champion-
ship regular season on Wednesday with a 15-2 win against Randolph Macon.

make the ﬁnal score 15-2.

The Generals play in the quarterfinals
of the NCAA Tournament on Saturday
aﬁemoon at Wilson Field against either
Ohio Wesleyan or Denison, who will
play each other on Wednesday for the
right to come to Lexington.

The Generals defeated Denison
last year 16-13 in the ﬁrst round of the
NCAA Tournament and lost to Ohio
Wesleyan 15-6 in the quarterﬁnals.

Gleltir

 

Glartans anh Artessnries

19 W. Nelson Street
Lexington, VA 24450
(540) 464-6545

Qlnnnertinn

iﬂine gifts frmn Zlrelanh, gvrntlanh,
anh the Iﬁritislt Elsles

must: ﬂlinens Knitwear
Zllnnhs ﬁift Zlline Qlltina
(Krystal (llertifirates Jletuelrg
Religious Zltems iﬂrints lﬂunlzs

tﬁift Baskets Qlnllertahles lﬂrihal Registry

Authorized Caithness Glass Gallery

www.celticconnex.com
email:regina@celticconnex.com
Toll Free 1-877-celticz

Scoring Summary

1 2 3 4 Final
W&L (13-1) 4 4 7 0 15
RMC (9-6) 1 0 0 1 2

Academic.‘

ms ram snucamm LOAN
call toll-free 1-877-310-3456 for more information.

Woman among men

By Frances Groberg ‘

SPORTS EDITOR

Senior co-captain Cory Mettee
started playing lacrosse in the third
grade. But there was something dif-
ferent about her beginning.

“I had to play in the boys’
league because there was no
girls’ program near where I
lived,” Mettee said. “So for
two years, I learned how to
play in full equipment.”

Now she plays a form of
men’s lacrosse on a
women’s lacrosse ﬁeld.

In her four years play-
ing women’s lacrosse at
Washington and Lee, Mettee has
shown that she is not afraid to use
physical strength as well as skill to
ward off opponents. She loves to win,
and she’s not afraid to show it.

“You always want Cory to look at
you and tell you you played well,” jun-

 

ior co-captain Katherine Riddle said.
“She just loves lacrosse.”

Her unconventional style seems to
have paid off, as Mettee was awarded
All-ODAC honors this season. It also
helped to motivate this year’s ex-
tremely young team.

“Cory wants to win, and
she expects you to play
hard, Head Coach Jan
Hathorn said. “It was a
good example as to how to
get up and play every game
as hard as you can,”

Mettee considers la-
crosse one of the most posi-
tive influences on her life.

“It taught me how to be
competitive in a healthy sense, to be a
humble winner and a good loser in‘
every aspect of life,” she said.

“Without Cory, I think the team will
lose some of its spirit and ﬁre,” Riddle
said. “There’s just something about
her that makes everyone play well.”

1999 has been a successful year
for sports here at Washington and
Lee. From ODAC Championships

Championship Teams
Volleyball
Swimming

Men’s lacrosse
Men’s tennis
Women’s tennis
Golf

Freshmen of theYear
Lindsay Ruckert (Volleyball)
Paul Wallace (Men’s soccer)

Jessica Mentz
.(Women’s basketball)

W&L ODAC All-Stars

to Players of the Year, Rookies of the
Year to Coaches of the Year, the Ring-
tum Phi salutes them once again.

Players of the Year
Mikel Parker (Men’ s soccer)
Margaret Hoehl
(Women’s swimming)
Matt Dugan (Men’s lacrosse)

Coaches of the Year
Tern‘ Dadio-Campbell (Volleyball)
Kiki Jacobs-Moore (Swimming)
Jim Stagnitta (Men’s lacrosse)
Jeff Stickley (Baseball)
Kevin Moore (Golf)

_ . KEALL)’
Introducing the edge youAneed for college.

To pay for all the essentials traditional ﬁnancial aid won’t cover, get the AcademicEdge‘"‘ Loan.
Low interest rates. Easy to apply. Make no payments in school. Flexible repayment after you graduate.

99

©1999 Chela Financial

http://AcademicEdge.chelaFinancial.com

