u

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

\=\.I.!\S3-'iNi3‘1‘xi“\l  :  is-ix’ 'E'+-SSFY
A

   

VOLUME 102, NO. 23

Idaho loses

over shirts  

Coach loses job for role in
designing controversial shirt;
student mediation continues

By Polly Doig

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

Although the Mock Convention took place more than
a month ago, the Idaho delegation continues to face the
consequences of a provocative T-shirt produced for the
event

The shirt, which featured a busty black woman pro-
claiming “I-da-ho”, has been perceived of as sexist and
racist by many. Several Washington and Lee student or-
ganizations, including the Minority Student Association
and the Women’s Forum, complained to the administra-
tion.

In a meeting this past week, the faculty unanimously
approved a resolution condemning the shirts, which stated
that, “this incident and others of a similar nature are com-
pletely inconsistent with the values of the University.”
The resolution was distributed to the W&L community
via e-mail, and full—page ads have appeared in both cam-
pus newspapers.

In addition, assistant baseball coach John Baizley was
ﬁred this week, following student outcry, for his role in
designing the shirts. Baizley is also the owner of Univer-
sity Sportwear, and designs many T-shirts for various
campus organizations and events.

Sophomore Jason Williams was one of the members of
the Idaho delegation who was offended by the shirt, and
chose not to buy one.

“They were just described to me, but I had no idea
how bad they were going to be,” Williams said, who didn’t
actually see the shirts until complaints had been made a
few weeks after Mock Con. “It was really disgusting. It
amazed me that someone could even come up with some-
thing like that, that it would even occur to them.”

According to Williams, the Idaho delegation initially
said that those involved were willing to accept any pro-
posed remedy. Open meetings to discuss race issues
were subsequently held so that students might voice
their opinions. In addition, W&L president John Elrod
held an open forum session this week to address the
issue. One ofthe most common complaints was that the
administration had not reacted in a suitable manner, nor
ofits own accord.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

photo by Emily Bamesl Photo Editor

AN OPEN FORUM. Students were given the opportunity to question President John Elrod during an
open forum held this week. Many were dismayed at the initial lack of response from the

administration to the Idaho T-shirts.

“There was a lot of general dissatisfaction with the
administration for not having reacted strongly enough,”
Williams said.

MSA president Lezael Haynes was one of tho"e who
objected to the University’s initial lack of response to the
shirts. Baizley retained his coaching position until this
week, even though administrators had been notiﬁed more
than two weeks ago.

“The administration shouldn’t have had to have minor-
ity feedback in Order to know that Mr. Baizley should be
ﬁred,” Haynes said. “Nowhere else can you engage in rac-
ism or sexism and still expect to keep your job.”

Haynes also felt that the open sessions didn’t ac-
complish all that they were supposed to, because only
about one-third of the 25-member Idaho delegation par-
ticipated. Haynes has met personally with the Idaho state
chairman, junior Regan Reaud, and University Media-
tor Tiffany Cummings in order to work toward a solu-
tion.

Haynes said that those mediation sessions have been
very productive.

“A large part of that is that Reagan has realized he was
wrong, and is eager to make amends,” she said. Haynes
added that the terms discussed thus far include a letter of
apology, a full effort to recall the shirts and some form of
community service directed at a minority cause. The temis
of the reprimand will be ﬁnalized today, according to
Haynes.

Reaud has already issued a recall on the shirts, of
which there are 30, but has only gotten four back. He
gave his own two shirts to Associate Dean of Students
Courtney Penn, and has yet to account for the remaining
24. According to Haynes, another problem is that no one
else on the delegation has admitted responsibility.

“We’re hoping to get some sort of administrative sup-
port,” Haynes said. “Hopefully, the deans will investi-
gate this fully, ﬁnd out who else was responsible, and
assign them some sort of punishment.”

SAB lands a “fish” and moe. for concert

Alumni Weekend concert will
feature two diverse bands

By Michael Crittenden

ASSOCIA r1: EDITOR

Despite the impossibility of reaching the level of last
year’s Alumni Weekend festivities, the Student Activities
Board hopes to rock undergraduates and alums alike with
the announcement of this year’s bands, Leftover Salmon
and moe.

“I think it will really be a great show to kickoff Spring
Term with,” SAB president, senior Dave Levinson said.
“We’ve been trying to get them to come all year, and now we
ﬁnally have them. It’s really exciting.”

Alumni Weekend, May 4 -6, this year will feature the two
bands, neither of which is a stranger to the Lexington area.
In recent years both Leftover Salmon and moe. have played
to Washington and Lee audiences during Alumni Weekend

and at the Buffalo Creek Music Festival festivities. Most
interesting about the two bands is the diverse sound they
will bring to their performances.

SAB member senior Gavin Dean is familiar with both
bands.

“I’ve seen both of the bands since I’ve been here,” he
said, “and they’ll deﬁnitely ﬁt in with the Spring Term atmo-
sphere.”

Leftover Salmon, a group that plays a self-proclaimed
mix of “polyethnic cajun slarngrass” is most famous for its
1995 live album Ask the Fish. Led by leadisinger Vince
Herman and one of the nation’s best mandolin players, Drew
Emmitt, the band features an intriguing mix of acoustic gui-
tar, ﬁddle, mandolin, and waterhom, along with a solid bass
and drums duo, the musical stylings of Leftover Salmon
have garnered the group a large fan base throughout the
United States. The fans, who call themselves LoSers, seem
to be enchanted with LoS’s puerile humor, and penchant for
innocent fun coupled with outstanding music. Described
by one person as music “as an art form with comical antics,”

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

BLOWING HIS OwN HORN: Junior Scott Meister (center) plays during a University Jazz
Ensemble concert. held on Saturday. Junior Hillary Bryant also was a featured soloist.

the group is famous for keeping it mellow.

“This is not music for people who take themselves, the
tunes they listen too, or the world in general too seriously,”
according to www.leftoversalmon.com, the group’s
webpage.

On the other side of the coin is moe., a group made fa-
mous by its long jams and eclectic humor. Named after the
old Louis Jordan tune “Five Guys Named Moe,” the group
was fonned in 1991. Playing a mix of music from blues to
pop, moe. recently released a double-live album entitled “L”.
Casting themselves as a band with a “sense of humor that
loves to have fun,” moe.’s contemporary rock masterings
have gained it a fan base similar to that of Leftover Salmon.
Calling themselves “moerons”, the fans are known to fol-
low the band quite loyally.

Student reaction has been fairly low-key this far away
from the concert, but Levinson said he thought it should be
a success.

Said freshman Ann Whitham, “They both sound like
things you find in your refrigerator.”

 

MONDAY, MARCH 13, 2000

Local stores
face e-rivals

Some Lex merchants notice
an internet-related decline in
business and retaliate in kind

By Katie Clark

STA FF WRITER

Although the nation has ﬁnally squashed the Y2K bug,
Lexington businesses are still dealing with the infestation
of a different computer pest: the Internet.

“I’ve seen a severe drop in business in the last year,
primarily because of the Internet,” said Wayne Raynal,
owner of the now-closed Night Owl Music.

Raynal says he closed his music store last month be-
cause his customers no longer came to Night Owl, an oc-
currence he blames in part on various Internet companies’
promotions.

“The bigger businesses aren’t concerned with what the
consumer wants, but with getting the consumer to buy
what they have,” he said.

Raynal says he worries about Internet pages that are
misleading.

“People think they are paying less when they buy CDs
online. They forget that they have to pay UPS fees,” he
said. “The companies don’t clearly post their shipping
prices. It’s in the ﬁne print. I wish people would realize it
would [have] been cheaper to come into Night Owl and
buy a CD.”

Some local businesses have competed more success-
fully with Internet vendors. The Best Seller, a downtown
bookstore, lowered prices to contend with online dealers
like Amazon.com.

“Once we stopped charging for special orders, the num-
ber of orders increased and we actually started making a
larger profit,” said manager Tom Lomax.

Jim Casey, professor of economics at Washington and
Lee University, believes downtown stores need to do more
than lower their prices to stay in business.

“I do not think it is a matter of protecting themselves
from the Internet, rather using the Internet,” Casey said.
“Small stores need to think about how they can beneﬁt
from using the Internet, not how the Internet hurts them.”

Marlene Benniston, an employee of Cocoa Mill Choco-
late, says her store is proﬁting from the Internet. Cocoa
Mill Chocolate has developed its own Internet site to stay
competitive in the gift shop market. She says the store has
enjoyed increased sales from trafﬁc to the site.

“We recognized how convenient it would be for people
looking for a speciﬁc product, like chocolates, to place an
order over the Internet,” Benniston said. “We’ve given people
another way to mail order candy and send holiday gifts.”

Some local businesses remain conﬁdent that the growth
of Internet sales won’t affect their proﬁts, even if they
don’t offer competing web sites.

Scott R. Bunten, owner of Reel Time, a ﬂy ﬁshing sup-
ply store, says downtown merchants can continue to pros-
per, but they need to sell unique merchandise.

“In my line of business, people like to play with my
products before they buy them,” Bunten said. “My cus-
tomers want to take a $600 reel and practice casting it in the
lot behind the store. You can’t do that with the Internet
companies.”

Bunten said store owners should be aware of the deals
manufacturers make with Internet distributors.

“My business is protected from Internet competition
because Internet distributors pay the same price I do for
merchandise,” he said.

Tom Osella, owner of Healthy Foods Market, is not con-
cerned about the lntemet taking business away from his
store because of the friendly service he provides.

“Our business is going strong and hasn’t slowed
down,” he said. “The more depersonalized the world be-
comes, the more people like us better.”

March 13, 2000

OPINION:

W&L1EE:
St. Patrick

SPORTS:

@112 ﬂing-tum lﬁhi

The ruckus in Idaho continues

PAGE 4

PAGE 5

Men’s lax downs national rival

PAGES 6-7

 

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
DEFENSIVE. Junior Pete Iwancio tries
to defend an undefeated season.

 

PAGE 2

 

Clinton strategist to speak

Dick Morris, chief political strategist for President
Clinton, will speak in Lee Chapel on Thursday, March 16 at
7:30 p.m.

Morris is a longtime political strategist whose clients
have included Clinton, Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott,
Massachusetts Gov. Bill Weld, California Gov. Pete Wil-
son and numerous other high proﬁle political leaders.

Called “the most inﬂuential private citizen in America”
by Time, Morris is the author of “Behind the Oval Ofﬁce:
Winning the Presidency in the 90’s.”

Morris’ talk will attempt to uncloak the system of power,
polls and patronage that drives government policy and
provide a riveting peek into the workings of the White
House. He will also analyze the effect of baby boomers on
politics and speculate on the changes today's generation
will bring to government.

Film Society to present “Tango”

The Washington and Lee Film Society will present a
delightful drama of music and dance, “Tango” (Spain/Ar-
gentina, 1998), directed by Carlos Saura.

Screenings will be at 7:30 p.m. on March 17 and 18, in
the Troubadour Cinema. As always, there is no charge for
admission, although contributions are welcome. This ﬁlm
is in Spanish, with English subtitles, and is rated PG-13.

 

Ellie

Tiling.-tum {ﬂirt

NEWS

Set in Buenos Aires, this Oscar-nominated ﬁlm tells the
story of a director who yearns to make the ultimate tango
movie, only to ﬁnd political, business and — ofcourse ——
romantic complications.

Featuring ﬁery music and stunning choreography and
gorgeously ﬁlmed by the great cinematographer Vittorio
Storaro, “Tango” is a treat for the ear and eye. The San
Francisco Chronicle called “Tango”, “one of the most
purelyjoyful pieces ofcinema in years.”

Ensembles prepare to go Down Under

The W&L Wind and Jazz Ensembles will present a pre-
tour concert on March 21 at 8 p.m. in the Lenfest Center, in
preparation for their weeklong tour of Australia. Forty-
seven students will perform six concerts at the University
of Melbourne and at the music conservatory at the Uni-
versity of Newcastle during W&L’s Spring Break.

Tuesday’s performance will have a deﬁnite American
ﬂair to it. Marches by Sousa, a selection by Charles Ives,
an American original, arrangements of Renaissance dances
by the contemporary composer Jan Bach, strains from West
Side Story, a tune by Australia’s favorite son, Percy
Grainger, and a trumpet solo by W&L junior, Scott Meister
are the important ingredients that will make this concert
special for the audience and for W&L’s music ambassa-
dors. Barry Kolman, associate professor of music, con-
ducts the University Wind Ensemble, consisting of stu-
dents, outstanding local residents and W&L faculty.

The Jazz Ensemble, directed by Teny Vosbein, assis-
tant professor of music, will present works from the librar-
ies of the great American jazz bands. Selections include
works by Basie, Ellington and the Benny Goodman-Gene
Krupa solid gold smash hit, Sing Sing Sing.

The concert is free and open to the public.

Student directors present One Acts

As spring approaches, excitement builds in the Wash-
ington and Lee theater department as the advanced direct-
ing class prepares to showcase their talents in the One Acts
2000. The One Acts, a theater department tradition for over
27 years, is a student-run production. Popular for its highly
charged atmosphere and unusual plays, the One Acts draw
a large student audience eager to see works not typically
produced during the regular theatre series season. 7

Under the supervision of directing professor and fac-
ulty advisor J. D. Martinez, work for the One Acts begins
in January, when the young directors choose a short work
and begin organizing the necessary elements to prepare
the production for opening night. Decisions concerning
casting, scheduling, photography, scenery, lighting and
costumes are all made by the student directors.

The seven one-act plays will be perfonned in two sepa-
rate bills. Act 1 directors Vanessa Chen ’O1, Francis
McWilliarns ’O1 , Ryan Truax ’01 and Johnny Bubb ’00 will
present their plays on March 23 at 8 p.m., continuing on
March 25 at 2 p.m. and March 27 at 8 p.m. Act 1 features
“The St. Valentine’s Day Massacre” by Allen Knee, Fore-
play or the Art of the Fugue by David Ives, “Misreadings”
by Neena Beber and “Teeth” by Tina Howe.

Act 2 will showcase student directors Patrick Driscoll
’00, Zeenie Ginwalla ’O1 and Julieann Ulin ’O1 , featuring
“Molly and James” by Sheila Walsh, “Reverse Transcrip-
tion” by Tony Kushner and “For Whom the Southern
Belle Tolls” by Christopher Durang. Opening night for
Act 2 is March 24 at 8 p.m., continuing on March 26 at 2
p.m. and March 28 at 8 p.m.

The ‘One Acts are the most popular theater department
presentation among W&L students. No tickets are required
and admission is free.

RESERVE

OFFICERS’

TRAINING

CORPS

 
 

on a Sunday night?

HELP!

Work for the Phi.’

Call us, don’t make us call you.

Academic couple seeks
EGG DONOR 21-28

for East Coast clinic. Compensation

$12,000. Outstanding SATs and academics,

analytical, even-tempered, dark hair and

eyes,,olive complexion, even-featured, 5’7”

or taller, and lean/athletic build. Please
describe motivation along w/several
[returnable] photos to:
POB 22
West Kingston, RI 02892
All serious replies answered

Bored? Too much time to’ kill

        

SUMMER SCHOOL
  ON THEIR WAY

If you didn't sign up for
ROTC as a freshman or
sophomore. you can still
catch up to your class-
mates by attending
Army ROTC Camp
Challenge. a paid six-
week summer course in

FOR PEOPLE
TO THE TOP.

leadership training. By the
time you graduate from col-
lege. you’ll have the creden-
tials oi an Army officer.
You'll also have the self-
confidence and disci~
pline it takes to succeed
in college and beyond.

 

 
 

New an"

credit hietl   o

L@ TOYOTA real values. everyday.—] Wwwggttoyota _COm

'EPA estimated 32/39 City/Hwy automatic, 34/41 City/Hwy manual.

TOYOTA-101

MORE VALUE/LE55 MONEY
INTRODUCING THEM NEW

TOYOTA ECHO

THERE’5 AN ECHO OUT THERE! Great looke on the outelde, great room on the inelde.
Crulee the highway at 40 Ml’G’...very thrifty. Power? Plenty! lt’e a 1.5 liter hi-tech
16 valve DOCH engine with variable valve timing (new) that kicke out 108 horsepower
any time you want it. And beet of all, Echo ie the lowest priced Toyota!

ii" thru Toyota Motor Credit helpe those with limited
r leaee a new Echo or Celica. See dealer for detaile.

MARCH 13, 2000

New dean of Law School named

David F. Partlett, professor of law at Vanderbilt Uni-
versity Law School, has been named dean of the Wash-
ington and Lee University School of Law. He will begin
his duties on July 1.

“I am perfectly delighted with David Partlett’s appoint-
ment as law dean,” said Washington and Lee President
John Elrod. “He brings outstanding qualiﬁcations and
long experience to the deanship at Washington and Lee.
We look forward to his dynamic leadership in the years
ahead.”

Partlett will replace Mark Grunewald, who has been
serving as the interim dean since July.

Partlett earned his LL.B. from the University of Sydney
School ofLaw in 1970, his LL.M. from the University of
Michigan Law School in 1974 and his S.J.D. from the Uni-
versity of Virginia School of Law in 1980.

From 1974 to 1975, Partlett served as a senior legal
ofﬁcer for the Commonwealth Attomey-General’s Depart-
ment in Canberra, Australia, where he was responsible
for policy advice on the Racial Discrimination Act and
other related human rights legislation. .

Partlett then served as principal law reform ofﬁcer for
the Australian Law Reform Commission before joining
the faculty of the Australian National University in 1978.
Partlett was a member of the faculty there through 1987
and served as associate dean from 1982 to 1985.

Partlett was a visiting professor of law at Vanderbilt
during the 1987-88 academic year and then joined the
faculty full-time. At Vanderbilt, he has served as a senior
fellow in the Institute for Public Policy Studies and served
as chief of staff on the Vanderbilt University Chancellor
Search Committee this year. Partlett was also the acting
dean of the Vanderbilt University Law School during the
1996-97 academic year.

Partlett has received several awards and honors at
Vanderbilt, including the Paul Hartman Award (1993) for
excellence in teaching, the Distinguished Service Award
(1996) from the law school and the Thomas Jefferson
Award (1998) for distinguished service to the university
through extraordinary contributions as a member of the
faculty in the councils and government of the university.

Actively engaged in scholarly research, Partlett is the
author of numerous books and articles on torts and law
and medicine. His ﬁrst book, “Professional Negligence
“(1985) was one of the ﬁrst works of commonwealth schol-
arship to apply economic insights to tort law. In 1994, he
collaborated on a book titled “Child Mental Health and
the Law”. Partlett has recently completed the latest edi-
tion of Prosser & Wade’s Cases and Materials on Torts,
the leading torts casebook. He also has a contract for a
forthcoming book “Defamation and Free Speech: A Study
of Different Cultures”.

The W&L School of Law dates to 1849 and is annually
ranked among the top law schools in the country, serving
approximately 365 law students.

N.Y. Times correspondent to speak

R.W. Apple Jr., chief correspondent for The New York
Times, will speak on Wed., March 15 at 4:30 p.m. in Northen
Auditorium. Apple’s public lecture is titled, “Politics and
Pundits Forty Years On: The Campaign of 2000.”

Apple became chief correspondent for The Times in
1997 after serving 12 years as chief Washington corre-
spondent and four years as the Washington D.C. bureau
chief. He writes extensively on a wide range of topics,
including politics, foreign policy and economic questions,
as well as food, wine, travel and the arts.

Since joining The Times in 1963, he has written from
more than 100 countries, reported on various international
elections, and a wide variety of other stories on ﬁve con-

tinents. He previously has served as The Times bureau .

chief in Albany, Saigon, Lagos, Nairobi, London and Mos-
cow. He headed The Times’ coverage of the Gulf War in
1991.

At home, Apple has been involved in the coverage
of 17 national conventions and eight presidential elec- '
tions. He was the newspaper’s national political corre-
spondent from 1970 to 1976. Prior tojoining the paper,
he covered the civil rights movement in the South for
NBC News. He was also a reporter for the Wall Street
Journal.

 
  

 

 

   
 

(5 ’ ‘ 9
A ' A

@

The faculty of Washington and Lee
condemns in the strongest possible terms
the racist and sexist slur displayed on
the t—shirts of the Idaho delegation
during the Mock Convention.
This incident and others of a similar
nature are completely inconsistent
with the values of the University.
They underscore the need for a
renewed University—wide commitment
to inclusiveness. We pledge ourselves
to direct action to improve the
understanding of everyone in our
community of the obligations of civility

and respect for persons.

ADVERTISEMENT PAID BY THE UNIVERSITY FACULTY

 

 

PAGE 4

OP

@112 ‘ﬂing-tum tam

INION

 

MARCH 13, 2000

Idaho T-shirt:
Get over it

In thinking ofa topic to write about this week, I could
not help but be compelled to address the Idaho delegation
T-shirt. Afterall, how can I ignore letters to the editor, a
forum, and a man resigning from his long-time coaching
position?

The Idaho T-shirt, which I’m sure by this time every-
body fully understands the design, may not have been in
good taste,
but needs to
be examined (:2 1;
without go-
ing off the
deep end. It
was not
right. It was
not appropriate. I make no excuses, but before jumping all
over University Sportwear and intentionally trying to hurt
the business please look at other facts.

Jack Baizley is a great man. He loves this school. That’s
why he’s here. He loved coaching the baseball team, but
sadly no longer is doing so. He loves this school so much
he opened a store selling W&L products. Now some stu-
dents arejoining forces in an attempt to boycott his store.
That’s uncalled for.

Since this school is overrun by the Greek system (and
that’s not a criticism), let’s take time to look at it more
closely. Hmm. . . themes of mixers. . . “Pimps and prosti-
tutes”, “Bros, hos, and 40s”, “Presidents and interns”,
“Redneck ball”, “Whitetrash trailerbash”, just to name a
few. These mixers have T-shirts. And, these all have slurs
to some extent, but nothing is said about them. If some
supersensitive group saw these names, they quite easily
could be up in arms, complain to administration, hold a
meeting, boycott a store, but they don’t. That’s right, they
don’t. Why is that? The answer is simple: It is not meant
to be taken seriously.

I think that should be said again. It is not meant to be
taken seriously.

If I was one of these overly sensitive people, I could
easily be offended by everyday life, not only here at W&L
but all over. But I’m not. I could whine and complain be-
cause women are objectified. I could have even been with
those on the anti-Idaho delegation kick and taken the shirt
personally because the picture was of a woman and refer-
ring to her as a “ho”. But I didn’t. It in no way means that

I’m passive, in fact I’m the opposite, but I know how to
pick and choose my battles and I am able to recognize
whether there is a battle to begin with. The Idaho delega-
tion was making ajoke. Do you remember what that is?
Evidently not.

Even though the students at this school are criticized
for being racially insensitive, they are not as deeply in the
dark ages as some would have you believe.

So, I think it’s time to stop pointing fingers every time
something goes wrong. It’sjust like the crying wolf prob-
lem: When you do it too often, people stop listening. At
the rate things are going, if and when a real problem sur-
faces no one will listen. And when pointing ﬁngers, let’s
be consistent. Afterall, other people are also offensive in
what they wear, say, and do.

The bottom line is that the Idaho delegation had the
right to make the shirt. It’s freedom of speech. And for
those of you who don’t like the shirt, don’t buy it, don’t
wear it, or even point at the person you see wearing the
shirt on the Colonnade and mumble that you don’t think
it’s right. I really don’t care what you think about the shirt,
just don’t try to force others to join in your crusade in
misinterpreting a joke.

Ellie Ring-tum {ﬂirt

 

- Alexander the Grape
W; Stephanie Bianoo ‘O1

 

 

Executive Editor Polly Doig
Associate Editor Michael Crittenden
News Editor Max Smith

Opinions Editor
W&Life Editor

Sports Editor

Photo Editor

Assistant Photo Editors

Stephanie Bianco
Elianna Marziani
Steele Cooper
Emily Barnes
Tiffany Friedel
Lisa Lin

David Hanson

Layout Editor Neal Willetts

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University ‘
Lexington. VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu

https//wIu.edu/-phi V

Annual subsription rate: 530

Idaho T-shirts.

IDAHO DEBATE. Assistant Dean of Students Courtney Penn partcipates in the forum about the

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

it

Top Ten Stupid

Pledgeship Moments .

10. The pledges not being allowed to talk to girls.

9.The dramatic reading of“Green Eggs and Ham” out—§

side of the library.

8.The pledge in front of the Post Office with the “No
hope in dope” sandwich board. '

7. The pledges “Give Texas back to Mexico” protest in,‘
front of the Co—op.

6. The pledges “Give Texas back to Mexico” petition in
front of the Co—op.

5. The pledge that has to skateboard all around cam-y
pus.

4.The pledges that came to the basketball games with
“Hudson” and “Ricketts” painted on their chests.

3. The pledge in the library and science center eleva~y
tors in their own rendition oftuxedos saying, “What ﬂoor
please?”

2. The pledge that rides around campus on an orange
horse and locks it up when going to class. ,4

1. Flava Flavjamming around campus with his Adidas
warm-up suit, chain necklace with huge clock, old-school
shades, and boombox.

 uote of the Week: ,
(( I
If anyone else asks me for a
threesome, foursome,
ﬁvesome, or sixsome, I’ll. . .
ll‘

— Anonymous sophomore girl

LETTERS TO

Alum calls for racial tolerance
from W&L community

Dear Editor,

I am writing to express my outrage and disappointment
with this situation. I cannot believe that this kind of be-
havior by an employee of the university was handled in
such a lenient manner. Will someone please explain to me
why Washington and Lee is more outraged by incidents of
hazing than they are incidents of racial insensitivity com-
mitted by someone on their payroll? People are dismissed
on theirjobs everyday for simply making a racial slur, let
alone producing and marketing one under the umbrella of
a prestigious university such as Washington and Lee.

It saddens me that an institution which prides itself on
civil behavior would allow such an uncivil act to occur
without a stiff punishment. Faculty and staff members, no
matter the capacity they work in, are representatives of the
university. The T-shirt itself is an insult, but even more
insulting is the way in which the offender has been dealt
with.

As a student, I sat in on many meetings committed to
solving diversity issues and creating a more accepting cli-
mate for minorities. I left those meetings hopeful that those
students behind me would not have to take time out of
their studies to deal with these same problems. However, it
appears that my fellow classmates and I were given alot of
lip service to appease us until graduation. Things have
seemingly gotten worse for minority students at Washing-
ton and Lee. The institution needs to put some action be-
hind their words and prove that they are working towards
a more inclusive climate. Allowing incidents such as this
to pass without due consequence sends a very negative
message to minorities at Washington and Lee. The mes-
sage comes across loud and clear that we do not value
your contribution to this institution, and even worse, we
do not value your differences either.

The offending party should be promptly dismissed and
financial support for his business should cease. Washing-

3"

THE EDITOR

ton and Lee needs to send a very clear message that this
kind of behavior will not be tolerated under any circum-
stances.

As an alumnus, I am still very much involved in the
university, however my passion has always been to im-
prove the climate for minority students. Many minority
alumni leave Washington and Lee bitter and vowing never
to return. These sentiments are a result of the environment
that exists beyond the Colonnade. Whether they realize it
or not, the administration sends the vibe that they really
could care less about the minority students. Thus, they go
through Washington and Lee feeling as though no one
will listen, no one understands, and furthermore, no one
cares.

This is why Washington and Lee has a hard time re-
cruiting minority students. Incidents such as the Idaho T-
shirt are merely a symptom of the real problems that lie
within this institution. Until Washington and Lee decides
and conveys that minorities are an asset to the community,
our beloved school will never reach its full potential.

Sincerely,

Shanntonnette L. Wade ’99

University Sportwear owner
speaks out about Idaho shirt

Dear Editor,

University Sportwear would like to publicly apologize
to the Washington and Lee community for its role in the
production of the Idaho Delegation T-shirt. To be perfectly
blunt, we were wrong.

In meetings with offended parties, it has been made
known to us that not only this shirt, but shirts we have
produced for various organizations in the past, have been
offensive. In response, we issue the following pledge:
Henceforth we will not produce any product which de-
picts or perpetuates any racial, cultural or gender based

stereotype, or demeans any racial, cultural or gender based
group. This pledge will be prominently displayed in ourh
store and serve as a constant reminder to our customers
and ourselves of this policy.

With great personal loss, I have learned a valuable les-
son from this episode which has stained the otherwise;
excellent record of minority and gender relations which my
company and I have achieved. It is our express desire that
Washington and Lee and its extended community also learn
these lessons and use this is a springboard to greater di-
versity and growth. "

Our. sincere apology respectfully submitted,

John D. Baizley

#1

Secretary of State warns stu-

dents about vacation dangers_

Dear Editor,

As the season of spring breaks and summer vacations
approaches, I ask for your assistance in alerting American
students about the risks and consequences of reckless‘
behavior while studyingor travelling abroad. '

Each year, many American students serve time in for-
eign jails or await trial in detention because they were un-
aware of the risks of using or possessing drugs while over-
seas. Many young Americans are also arrested in foreign.
lands because of inappropriate behavior associated with
heavy drinking.

The State Department’s Bureau of Consular Affairs is
responsible for the protection and welfare of U.S. citizens
being held in foreign jails, they cannot get them release .

Additional safety information can be viewed and down-
loaded from the Consular Affairs’ home page of Internet at
http://travel.state.gov.

Thank you for your cooperation.

Sincerely,

Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright

Y

What is th craziest thin
you’ve ever done at a party?

“Beat up a band member.”
—~ Ivan Zdanov ‘02

‘‘I wrestled a blow-up alligator
in a kiddie pool."

~ ~ Tara Friedel ’02

“I usually don’t remember thm..”
— Josh Counts ’02

“Christie and I got into a
bottle throwing contest."
— Kate Mobley ‘02

I!’

l.
l

2

 

 

.   Ellie iﬂing-tum lﬂhi

A Wee bit 0’ Saint Paddy’s day lore

St. Patrick: The man whose saintly acts
inspire rather unsaintly celebrations

MARCH 13, 2000

Signature Student
ézoﬁn (30122/y ’01i

mission to spread God’s word
throughout that kingdom.
By the time he died, Patrick had

snakes were worshipped; hence,
Patrick, who worked on casting pa-
ganism from the island, is said to have

“Ifa story gets out, it’s only one B E - - - and would take him home. Before re- baptized tens of thousands and cast the snakes away.
' ' ' , - , allll 1 . . . . .
By Eiiarina Marziani side,” he said. “Students don t get y 11 aMarZ1an turning home, Patrick visited the fa- turned a predominantly pagan land
FEATURESEDITOR to hear some ofthe stuffthat comes FEATURESEDITOR mous French bishop, Germanus of

into one predominantly Christian. He
died in Ireland on March 17, c. 460
A.D.

Shamrock:

The Shamrock is a symbol ofthe
Trinity. Before Christianity arose in
Ireland, it was sacred to the druids

Where have you seen that name
before? Probably plastered all over
the dining hall doors and other stra-

out in hearings.” Each year when March 17 rolls
around, most ofus get visions ofrau-

cous parades, “Kiss me, I’m Irish”

Auxerre. During this visit, Patrick
deepened his love for Christ and His
Scriptures. When he ﬁnally reached

tegic places on campus. John Comly
just ﬁnished a successful race for
the presidency of the Executive
Committee. Comly served as his
c|ass’s representative to the E.C. this
year and is looking forward to his
year presiding over the Committee.

Though he is an economics ma-
jor and involved in several campus
activities including Generals Chris-
tian Fellowship, Southern Comfort,
and the Sigma Alpha Epsilon frater-
nity, he considers his work with the
E.C. a key part ofhis time at Wash-
ington and Lee University.

“lt’s been the most rewarding

  

Photo counesy of the ('0/yx

He hopes to maintain conﬁdenti-
ality, while at the same time have the
E.C. say as much as it can and be as
accountable as it can be to the stu-
dent body. He stresses that students
should talk to candidates running to

 

pins, and the one green outﬁt in our
closet.

St. Patrick’s Day is known, and cel-
ebrated loudly, throughout the coun-
try. But who exactly was the man for
whom the day was named?

Patrick was the son of a British
nobleman, rather uneducated and not
spiritual at all. He was kidnapped at
the age of 16 by Irish raiders and sold
into slavery to Miliucc, a pagan chief-
tain—king. Patrick’s job was tending
the king’s sheep. For six years he lived
on a rainy mountain, tending the
sheep. It was a lonelyjob, and before
long Patrick found himself saying the

home, his family and
friends were delighted to

and considered a
mystical number. Leg-

see him and begged him
to stay, but one night
Patrick had a vision in
which he heard the
voices of the Irish call-
ing him back to Ireland.
Patrick knew he had
to go. He started his work
as a missionary to Ireland
in 430 AD. Ireland was a
thoroughly pagan coun-
try, led by druids who
performed human and
animal sacriﬁces to local

end has it that when
Patrick gave one of
his open-air sermons,
he illustrated the Trin-
ity by plucking a
shamrock from the
grass.

Leprechaun:
Perhaps the most

greatly debated leg-
end is that ofthe lep-
rechaun. The most
widely accepted leg-

thing l’ve done at this school,” he be their representatives and ﬁnd out prayers taught to him by his grandfa- gods. end is that the lepre-
said. where they stand on issues and what ther, and soon internalizing them and Spiritism, black magic, chaun is a dwarf, per-
He thinks that getting more in- they consider honorable and dishon- forming arelationship with God. and occult rituals haps 2 feet tall, who

volved by serving as president will
be an even more rewarding experi-
ence. “I believe in the system and
really respect the school and the
system,” he said. “I thought [serv-
ing as president] would be a great
honor to do.”

Comly did not run with a platform.
“I think the duty of the E.C. presi-
dent is to reflect the current student
body’s ideas about honor,” he said.
“Myjob will be to can'y out what the
White Book Review comes up with.”

He was, however, more than will-
ing to talk about what he thinks of
the system, what changes he expects
to see, and what the system ideally
should be.

He believes that education is

orable, and then vote for the candi-
date that they believe represents
them. That is the best way for trust
in the system to be maintained.
Comly is strongly in favor of the
single-sanction honor system. “I
don’t believe honor can be measured
by grade,” he said. “Honor is mea-
sured in intent, and I believe that can
be black and white.” He says that,
while it is possible that dishonorable
people could change and become
honorable, at a small school like W&L
where the community hinges on
people’s respect for the system, the
single-sanction is crucial.

He is always happy to discuss the V

honor system with people, and he
looks forward to another great year

One night, six years after arriving
in Ireland, Patrick heard God’s voice
telling him, “Soon you will go to your
own country. See, your ship is ready.”
That night Patrick ran away. Eventu-
ally he came upon a ship setting sail

abounded. Patrick felt it
was his calling to intro-
duce all these people to
Christianity. In Tara, he

 

is a shoemaker by
trade. He is crafty and
nearly impossible to
catch. He owns a pot

had a famous face—off
with the highest druid

courtesy: wwwgeocities.com/SouthBeach/Boardwalk/2 747/graphics/stpatgraphs.htm

and begged for passage, promising
payment from his parents later. The
captain at ﬁrst refused, at which time
Patrick went off for a time of prayer
asking for God’s guidance. Soon af-
ter a sailor came up to him and told
him the captain had changed his mind

priest, a series of contests of spirits,
in which the druid priests lost, all dy-
ing or converting. For 30 years Patrick
stayed and continued converting Ire-
land, castle byecastle. Patrick met in-
dividually with the local kings, tell-
ing them about Jesus and gaining per-

Snakes:
Legend has it that Patrick drove

the snakes from Ireland. There are no
snakes in Ireland, but whether or not
that can be attributed to Patrick is de-
batable. The reason for this legend
may be that in many pagan religions

of gold, and if some-
one catches him, he
will give him his treasure. However,
a person who finds a leprechaun
must keep his eye on him, because
if he does not, the leprechaun will
get away. People try to track him
by listening for the sound of his
shoemaker’s hammer.

W&L’s Phi Beta Kappa to induct 52

 

  

      

    

 

   

' ' ' k’ th l'b I rtadsci ces. - _
very important in making the honor with the E.C. By Ehanna Marzlanl WOIQBIE 6 [beta a S n “eh th New Inductees, elected January  .
_ _ FEATURESEDITOR mem ers are genera y in e
system work. “We’re really going to Q: What are your plans for this \ top tenth percentile of their graduat_
push education,” he Said: Summer? _ The Washington and Lee Univer— ing class. Most inductees are under— From the Class of2000 From the Class of200l
Next year there will be a new . A: “Probably working ata ﬁnan- my Gamma Chapter of phi Beta 1 graduates, but some
White 300k, according i0 the new Ciai 5ei'ViCes e0mP3n}’» Possibiv aiso Kappa will induct 52 new members chapters, including Brittany Anne Ahlstrom Joshua Donald Chamberlain
. System as deciated attet the i999’ working ash camp ieadet totaweek’ on Ttuesday. Four of the new in- W&L’s, also occasion— Shannon Elizabeth Bell William David Christ
it Zooo White Book Review is eothpiete for it group iike Yotihg Life” ductees will be from the graduated A ally induct graduates. Rachel Leanne Bowes Katherine Derbes Eagan

Man)’ studehts vviii be reiieved to Q3 what do you Pia” oh doing Class of 1999,28 from this year’s ‘- _ Interestingly, the cer- Erin Ashley Buck Dana Marie Early

i<h0W that the EC Wiii be making 3 after graduation? senior class and 20 from the junior E"-."‘e' emony at Lee Chapel will Kristen Elizabeth Burr Joel Patrick Fechisin

new Vide0 aiS0- C0mi}’ h0PeS t0 A3 “Maybe going to iaw sehooi- class.  I not be the actual induc- Joshua Eben Carpenter Emily Thomas Fonnan

.- have 3" open forum at the begin‘ iirh diso ihterested ih ousihess-it Founded in 1776 at the College  tion ofthenew PBK mem- Lance Vernon Clack Jordan Samuel Ginsberg
hing 0rneXt)’ear to exbiaihthe honor Q3 when You were iittiev vvhatdtd of William and Mary, Phi Beta 2 V bers. According to PBK Edward Cantey Clarkson Susan Ellen Groves
system in detaii T0 Snidenis~ You Want t0 be Wheh You grew up? Kappa is the oldest and most pres- 5 regulations, the induc- David Jason Damiani Anne Cummins Hazlett
“i think that 3 ibr ofthe mistrust A5 “A tiremah ahd ii trash their tigious honor society in the United 1 tion must be a more se- Sean Craig Eddy Raquelle Alicia Headley
ebmes from Peobie being uhiii' Ridihg oh the outside or 3 iriovihg States. PBK recognizes academic cretive service open only Hayley King Hall Nathan Rollins Hoot
/1 formed,” Comly said. truck just seemed pretty neat to U10” achievement and scholarship, and to new and old PBK mem- Christopher Edward Hatzis Rachel Alaina Perdue
One or the toughest Parts or the Q3 What was 3 favorite itaiiovv‘ promotes the liberal arts education. bers. In the evening, a Warren Eliot Hedges Angela Christine Roman
honor system is the requirement for Cell Costume? Chapters of PBK select students C°"”e5'V “'ww'i’bk'°tg closed ceremony will Amy Cathryn Kane Kimberly Ann Russell
e°iitidehti3iitY- white Comiv sav s A5 “One year i was A'C- oiater with an outstanding academic record take place in which each inductee will Kirsten Rae Malm Nicholas Robert Ryan-Lang
thatconﬁdentiaiity is an absoiute he‘ from “Saved by the Beii-it i did the to become members, who have dem— be given his certiﬁcate and key, will be Stephanie Ann McKnight Kathie Soroka
Y Cessiiy i0 get some Witnesses t0 haiithings tight roiiiiig biaei‘ Jearisa onstrated some knowledge in math taught the society’s secret handshake, David Jason Miller Gina Lynn Spezialetti
speak and hence make the system the big White tennis shoes” and foreign languages and have done and will sign the membership book. Matthew Thomas Mills _ Jennifer Ruth Strawbridge
W0Ti<» ii aiso Peses Pmbiems He has ebme 3 ioiig W3)“ three-fourths of their undergraduate The Lee Chapel ceremony, how- Matthew Paul Neumayer Nathan Kyle Urquhart
ever, allows the new inductees to be Nancy LeAnne Reinhart Patrick Beaumont Wright
in’ _ , g _ _ _ publicly recognized. Classes will be Timothy Norman Showalter
i i  ' V ’  i , adjusted on Tuesday so that students Ashley Elizabeth Shreves
  o o .. 4.0.0 . . ..  . ..(W) W&L .:L shb V and faculty will be able to go to the Susan Neisler Smith From theGraduat€d C1355 0f1999

V ‘ I - .;.  .  '  ’ " "VV ' , ’ ' I  5 P-"L erosse ' vs‘ Y1“? urg-- . _ convocation to congratulate these Susan Erica Terzian

V_  ‘ VV . 1 VV » , 3 V I V Ltbettyﬂaiiﬁeld‘ , I ' A outstanding members of the Washing- Amanda Lauren Thayer Heather Marie Bradley

X 4:30 p‘m‘ Lecture‘ R‘w' Apple ‘it’ chiefchp ton and Lee community. The ceremony Meredith Lynn Welch Aaron Louis Habefmah
respondent for 771_eNew York Times’ will take place at Lee Chapel at 12:15 Mary Elizabeth Winfrey Leah Edwards R0binS0n
. Nottiieii Auditorium‘ , e R . p.m. . Courtney Catherine Yevich Courtney Breckenridge Stovall
4:30 p.m. Glasgow Endowment Series Read- p
. ing. Poet F leda Brown. duPont Au- /
*— d.,,,,um_ A   WRITE FOR THE PHI! W know W W M WRITE FOR ;:HE£H1.’
  WRITE FOR THE PHI! W RITE FOR HE HI-
Thursday, March 16 . -
7:30 .m. Contact Lecture. “The Future of
t P Pl't' D‘kM “h‘f lit‘ 1'
oi ics,” ic orris, 0 ie po ica
V strategist for President Clinton. - it
  1.14  ,   THIS YEARALOT or COLLEGE
T”““°Y'M°'"°   are ~ ~ GRADUATING
K. All Day 0 Adjusted classschedule for Phi Beta eioo Wit’ t’e°tu_re~ gapaness Society iii :    
 2 I ‘ Kappa Convocation. ,  1.‘ Ttaiisitiotiﬁ Dorothy R°biii,s’M°wr-v’  
 . . A rm r 10 ore I
 A 800 a‘m._8'45 am. fo e sen r.f ign service officer
E: B 3:50 a.m.-9:35 a.m. Nmiien A“<i“°n“m- ,
:1} c 9:40a.Vm.-10:25 am. _ _ Under the Army s
nfa in 10:30a.m.V- 11:15 am. - Friday, March 17 Loan Repayment ~
 E 11:20 a.m.-12:05pm. 3:00 p.m. Tennis (M). W&L vs. Guilford program, you could get
Convocation. 12:l5‘p.m.‘- 1:45 pm. College. Varsity Courts._ _ out from under with a
* F 1:50 p.m.-2:35 pm. 7:30 p.m. Film Society. “Tango” (Spain/Ar- threeyear enlistment
A G 2:40 pm. -3:25 pm, gentina, 1998), Troubadour Cinema Each year you serve
H 3330 P3174315 Pm? on active du reduces
i  Sdtt-ir'ddY« Mdheti to your indebtedness by one-
. . . J 5- OP,-m-" - _ P-In _ 9:00 am. Tennis (M). W&L vs. Eastern third 01.31500, which
12:15 p.m Phi Beta Kappa Convocation. Gail Mennonite. Varsity Courts, r mount is water
It I I M°Mw1“dYGii’S°na Wiiiiainnidmanir-» 2:00 p.m. Tennis (M). W&L vs. Virginia . . eve a g ’
. Davidson College. use Chapel. Wesleyan Varsity com, up to a $65,000 11m1_t. ,
I. 3,00 pm, Basebaii, w&L vs, Mary Washington. The offer applies to Perkins Loans, Stafford Loans,
‘ 1 SmithField. I », 4 , , V d M h 19 and certain other federally insured loans, which are not
A. . ,Sun ay, arc . .
8:00 p.m. Spring Choral Concert. Keller Theatre, . . &L V. . . In default it,  I ;
,4 _ V fest Center g i 9.00 am. Tennis (W). W vs. irginia _ , , f h b ft V .  1  ., g,  , § , V ,
, _ . Le“ ., . - .  Wesleym Varsity Courts, And debt reliefisjust one o t e many ene i s , , » I I  , , _._ .
t . V I V ‘V C ‘V 12:00 p.m. Baseball. W&L vs. West Virginia you’ll earn from the Army. Ask your Army Recruiter. °
Wednesday, MGP‘Ci\-  ' ‘ L g _ Tech. Smith Field. (doubleheader) (5 ) 8 8 6 Z 65 1   
Ar 3:00 pm. Lacrosse (M). W&L -vs. Dickinson. 1:00 p.m. Tennis (W). W&L vs. Mary Wash- _ ® .
A , Wilson Field. ington. Varsity Courts. V      BE_ 1 1_8 0 O _ 2  u n l
www.goarmy.com ! W T

 

 

PAGE 6

S

@112 iﬂing-tum Iﬂlti

PORT

MARCH 13, 2000

Men’s lax falls to Gettysbur

The Generals held the fourth-
ranked Bullets to only six
goals but could not capitalize
on scoring opportunities

By Brendan Harrington
STAFF WRITER

In lacrosse, like most other sports, the team that
makes the fewest mistakes usually wins the game.

‘ Yesterday afternoon at Wilson Field, fourth-ranked
Gettysburg made fewer mistakes and downed second-
ranked Washington and Lee 6-4 in an all-out defen-
sive war.

The Bullets netted the game-winning goal with 13:56
l_eft in the fourth quarter when attackman Ric Bremer
scored off an Adam Aiello assist to give Gettysburg a
5-4 lead.

Gettysburg played keep-away for the rest of the
game and midﬁelder Tommy Pearce scored on an empty
net with 46 seconds left to put the game away.

“We just didn’t shoot the ball well today and we
made some costly mistakes,” W&L head coach Jim
Stagnitta said following the game. “We learned a valu-
able lesson today. You can’t make mistakes against a
good team and expect to win.”

Before yesterday’s 6-4 loss, Washington and Lee
had won 54 straight games when holding their oppo-
nents to eight goals or less. The streak dates back to
1993, when W&L lost to Ohio Wesleyan in the
quarterfinals ofthe NCAA tournament.

Bullets goalie Andrew Barter, considered by many
to be the best goalie in Division 111, made nine saves
and shut down the Generals. W&L junior goalie Wes
Hays, however, playedjust as good if not better than
Barter, making 12 saves and keeping the Generals in
the game. 1

“Barter is a great player, but we have to shoot bet-
ter,” Stagnitta said. “Wes Hays played a great game.
It was two athletic teams going at it today, and wejust
made too many mistakes.”

One ofthose mistakes took place when Gettysburg
scored the game-winning goal.

Junior midfielder Pope Hackney accidentally came
off the field, thinking that he was being substituted
-for. But there was no substitution, and Gettysburg
9 took advantage ofthe mistake, scoring a goal with the

extra man.

Another key mistake took place in the third quarter
whenjunior defenseman Pete Iwancio turned the ball

g in defensive showdown

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

TRYING TO HOLD THEM OFF: Junior goalie Wes Hayes looks to clear the ball in Sunday’s match up against Gettysburg as sophomore EricKontargyris
and junior Greg Meyers manage surrounding Bullets. The Generals dropped the contest to the fourth-ranked Bullets, 6-4. W&L has not lost a

game where their opponents were held under eight goals since 1993.

over in his own zonejust after the Generals had killed
off a penalty. Bullets attackman Ross Garretson took
advantage of the turnover and scored an unassisted
goal to give Gettysburg a 4-3 lead.

The Generals also missed a number of opportuni-
ties on the offensive end.

“We had a number of opportunites right on the door
step but we just didn’t finish,” Stagnitta said.

The Generals went 0-4 on the extra-man attack, while
the Bullets went 1-4. W&L has scored on only 32 per-
cent of their extra-man opportunities so far this year,

Mos’tW&L students

usealcohol

Based on wet con: survey
data irom 1998,1999

Funded llll a grant trom

  VILABC

llirgi _ia Ilenartment or
Alﬂﬂllllllc Beverage c0Ill|’0l

and the lack of extra-man offense hurt the Generals
against the Bullets.

“I thought we generated good scoring opportuni-
ties when we had the extra man,” Stagnitta said.
“Again, it gets back to being able to finish, and today
we didn’t finish.”

The Generals scored the first goal ofthe game and
took a 1-0 lead when sophomore midfielder Andrew
Barnett scored off an assist from senior Colin
Dougherty with 8:50 left in the first quarter.

But Gettysburg tied the game less than a minute
later on an unassisted goal by Mark Pollack.

Junior attackman Matt Dugan scored two second quar-
ter goals for W&L, and Wes Cadman and Pearce added

goals for Gettysburg to make the score 3-3 at the half.

Garretson took advantage of lwancio’s mistake to
give Gettysburg a 4-3 lead with 9:55 left in the third
quarter. The Generals tied the game 4-4 as time expired
in the third quarter.

The Bullets outshot the Generals 24-23 while W&L
won the battle ofthe ground balls, 43-40. The Gener-
als completed 11 of 20 clears while the Bullets com-
pleted 12 of21 clears.

The Generals are back in action on Wednesday af-
ternoon at Wilson Field against Dickinson.

“We just have to learn from this game,” Stagnitta
said. “lt’s a long season, there’s plenty of games left
to play.”

like this today.

TIAA-CREF delivers impressive results like these by
combining two disciplined investment strategies.

in our equity accounts, for example, we combine
active management with enhanced indexing.With two
strategies, we have two ways to seek out
performance opportunities—helping to make your

investments work twice as hard.

EXpEN5E RATIO Combine this with our low
Cmﬁwm mwsm expenses and you'll see how
EQUIIIES AVERAGE

TlAA-CREF stands apart from

0.37"’ 1.92“

the competition.

Ensuring the future

for those who shape it.”

2000 TIAA-(REF 1/00.

While TIAA-[REF
invests for the long term,
it's nice to see performance

 

[REF GLOBAL EUUITI 5 AEET.“

35.05% 22.02"’" 18.7 5''’'’

1 YEAR 5 YEARS SINCE lNCEPTlON
AS OF 12/31/99 AS OF 12/31/99 5/1/92

With over $250 billion in assets, we're the world's largest
retirement company and the leading choice on
America's campuses. If that sounds good to
you, consider this number 1 800-842-2776. Call and ﬁnd
out how TIAA-CREF can work for you today

and tomorrow.

18111] 842-2775

www.tiaa-tref.org

 

t.The investment results shown for the CREF variable annuity reflect past performance and are not indicative of future rates of return. These returns and the value of the principal you
have invested will ﬂuctuate, so the shares you own may be more or less than their original price upon redemption. Foreign stock markets are sub'e<t to additional risks from changing
currency values, interest rates, government regulations. and political and economic conditions. 2.TIAA-CHEF expenses are subject to change an are not guaranteed tor the future 3
Source: Morningstar, lnc. 12/31/99,tracking 279 world stock mutual lunds.TIAA-CHEF individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes CREF certificates and interests in the ‘HAA Real
Estate Account.Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the variable component of the personal annuities, mutual lunds and tuition savings agreementsTlAA and TlAA{REF
Life Insurance Co issue insurance and annu'rties.TIAA{REF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services.Inve.stmem ,
antnod. For more complete information on CREF. including charges and expenses,cal| l 800 842-2776,ext. 5509,lor the prospectus. Read it carefully before you invest or send money.O

‘ an not FDIC Insured, may lose value and outlet banlr gugp

 

 

‘   SP“‘o“‘““ﬁ*?i“s

. MARCH 13,2000 pAG,7 ‘1

Women’s lax
falls to R-MC

By Steele Cooper

SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee’s women’s lacrosse team could
not overcome an early onslaught by the Yellow Jacket
of Randolph-Macon Saturday. »

The Generals traveled to Ashland to take on the con-
ference power and were sent home with a 13-8 loss.
That first loss ofthe season brings the General’s over-
all record to 2-1, and their ODAC record to l- 1.

The Yellow Jackets wasted no time getting started
and the Generals could not ﬁnd their rhythm in the ﬁrst
half. R-MC led the Generals 5-1 at the half. The contest
was more evenly matched up after the intermission as
the Yellow Jackets only outscored the Generals by one
goal.

R-MC outshot W&L 33-21, and Generals’ senior goal
keeper Ginny Jernigan came up with 13 saves.

R-MC was paced by the outstanding performance of
conference stand—out Carrie Winkler. She scored four
ofthe Yellow Jackets’ ﬁve ﬁrst-half goals on her way to
a seven goal day.

Senior Katherine Riddle, freshman Laura Wilson, and
sophomore Emily Owens led the Generals in scoring
with two goals apiece. Sophomores Courtenay Fisher
and Julie Carskadon each came up with one goal on the
day.

Sophomore defender Eloise Priest, back on defense
after a stint at attack last season, said that the Gener-
als’ nerves kept them from playing as hard as they could
on Saturday.

“We played a little scared and timid. When wego
into a game with conﬁdence and play like we all know
we can, we can win and beat everybody,” she said.

Priest did say that the transition this season minus
several key players from last year’s squad had been a
smooth one and she was hard—pressed to identify any
one area ofthe game where the Generals would be lack-
ing this season.

The Generals hope to bounce back from this ODAC
loss with a win against-Lynchburg on Wednesday. Game
time is set for 4:00 p.m.

Write Phi sports.

Email phi@w1u.edu.

 

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

LEADING THE WAY: Freshman Kelly Schlicter claims the win in the 1500-meter
run during Saturday’s Washington and Lee Track and Field Invitational.

Baseball dishes it

out and takes it, too

By Mike Weil
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee baseball
team handed Villa Julie a 15-8 pound-
ing on Wednesday before being
swept in a double header yesterday
against Guilford.

The Generals jumped on Villa Julie
early on Wednesday, scoring four runs
in the bottom of the ﬁrst. The Mus-
tang pitcher only retired one batter
before being pulled.

W&L notched its largest lead of
the game in the sixth inning at 12-3,
allowing them to coast to victory.

Freshman right-hander Michael
Hanson hurled six quality innings to
increase his season record to 3-1.

Freshman leftfielder Bobby
Littlehale went 4-for-5 on the day and
tallied three runs.

Senior shortstop David Hanson
went 3-for-5 with three RBIs, and class-
mate Schuyler Marshall notched two
hits, while driving in two runs and scor-
ing two as well.

The Generals did not experience
this same success Sunday however,"
getting blown away 7-3 and 12-0 by.
Guilford at the new Smith Field.

Sophomore catcher Todd Gosselink
and freshman DH Brian Gladyz led the
Generals, each going 2-for-3 in the first
game.

The Generals produced no high-
lights in second game, falling behind
4-0 in the bottom of the first and com-
ing up with only two hits for the game.
Senior Chris Stakem took the loss for
W&L. .

“Their pitching was a lot better than
1 expected,” said David Hanson. “We
didn’t put any pressure on them of-
fensively.”

The Generals now fall to 7-8 over-‘
all, and 0-4 in the ODAC.

“We obviously are in a hole, but
baseball’s a wierd sport.” Hanson said.
“We just need to get hot, get a streak
going. We can still make a run at it.”

W&L returns to action Tuesday
with a 3 p.m. contest against non-con-
ference foe, Mary Washington.

Women’s track has

By Steele Cooper

SPORTS EDITOR

Saturday, the men’s and women’s
outdoor hosted the W&L Track and
Field Invitational. The invitational was
the ﬁrst and last home contest of the
season for both squads.

The women came out on top of their
ﬁeld of eight teams, and the men fin-
ished fourth of nine teams.

The women claimed victories in a va-
riety of of events on Saturday. Senior
Jill Kosch took home the titles in both

perfect home record

the 200-meter and 400-meter dashes.

Freshman Burke Duncan blew out
the competition in the 3,000-meter run
and her classmate Kelly Schlicter won
the 1,500-meter run.

Senior Amy Calce won the long jump
and sophomore Sarah Schmidt sur-
passed the ﬁeld in the javelin.

The men’s sprints remained strong
on Saturday. Junior Marc Watson won
the 100-meter dash in 1 1 .02 seconds and
the 4x 1 00 relay team took second .

W&L travels to the Roanoke Col-
lege Invitational on Saturday.

Buy an ice cold can of

Coca-Cola" classic

from specially marked

on-campus vending

machines and you

could win an exclusive

Universal Music CD.

Offer ends

March 3l, 2000.

Look for more Universal

Studios experiences

this summer!

UNlVERSAL M USIC

Special Markets

‘ \
\

I

G

viii
.0

i

u
2
‘V
‘(I

$33:



_— ;.<(...»,».w§w.§,.o:v%_m*«&

v§"~4,»4.q9»¢<-"\‘°"‘ ;,,,,/,,..v.,... ¢~ '-

redit Suisse First Boston.



:iFR'

Source

“Bank of the Last 25 Years" as awarded by International Financing
Review, the jou nal of record of the international capital markets.

wvvw csfb.com

CREDIT FIRST
UISSE BOSTON

