it '5

SS
I"?-SP

 

 

   

7

73. 755

_..P

N

I
at
C.

U112 ﬂing-tum 10

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsrrY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

 
  
 
 

._ _. v - . . ‘ = .
WA3f1lu-;<_1 TON & LEE Ugiivﬁegsnrrf .
l':.Xli\IGTC'N_ VA 24450

Jhl 282000

i

VOLUME 102, No.18

Mock Convention
countdown begins

Organizers scurry to nail down last-
minute details as Friday’s event nears

By Polly Doi g

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

Four days before the first Session
of Washington and Lee University’s
Mock Convention opens, students
are still playing basketball in the gym-
nasium that will become the scene of
speeches, voting and predicting.

One might question whether the
convention will actually happen.

In fact, setup for Mock Con will
not begin until Wednesday, when vir-
tual nonstop construction of the
stage will begin based on a time-con-
trolled plan.

According to co-facilities chair-
man Christopher Ball, “we have to
convert the Wamer Center into a con-
vention hall in approximately 30
hours.”

The process will include setting up
more than 1,500 folding chairs, in ad-
dition to sound equipment, comput-
ers, the stage and a balloon drop. The
setup process, however, is not the
only one that still remains for Mock
Con planners. Many of the media
contacted have yet to conﬁrm that

they will come.

“The thing that’s been difﬁcult for
us is that Mock Con falls in between

By Ann Whitam

STAFF WRITER

Last Wednesday night, students,
faculty, and Lexington residents
gathered in the GHQ for a night of
jazz, free coffee, and a respite from
that lingering isolation we often
sense here in Lex Vegas, where the
only other coffee shop in town closes
at 5:30 p.m.

Put together in just two weeks
time, “Java at the GHQ” is a new
Wednesday night alternative to par-
ties, the Co-op, or studying for that
matter. The brainchild of Dr. Jane
Horton, the weekly coffee house is
partially funded by a grant from the
Virginia Alcoholic Beverage Control.
Through the grant, the ABC hopes
to reduce binge and underage drink-
ing on college campuses around the
state. Student Activities was able to
match the grant amount with funds
from the school budget.

Sipping on gourmet coffee from
Royal Cup Coffee of Birmingham,
the audience listened to the jazz of
professor of music Terry Vosbein,
senior Josh Harvey, UVA senior Rob
Hubbard, and Pete Davis.

Professor of music Dr. Gordon
Spice thinks the coffee house is a

the Iowa caucus and the New Hamp-
shire primary, and the State of the
Union address is the night before the
ﬁrst session,” Eddy said. “A lot of
TV stations simply don’t have the
manpower to cover bot .”

In spite ofthe conﬂictive timing,
however, several members of the me-
dia have conﬁrmed that they will
come. According to Eddy, The
Roanoke Times, WSLS, The Dallas
Morning News, and most of the wire
services have sent confirmation. Time
magazine will ﬁrm up their plans on
Tuesday, as well as many of the net-
works (_including the elusive C-SPAN
and MSNBC) who will wait until later
in the week to ﬁnalize their plans.

In addition, general chairman Mark
Schweppe hints at a surprise “visit”
by a candidate, which will take place
during the third session.

Schweppe also asks that delegates
be on time for each session, and re-
main seated while speakers have the
ﬂoor.

Although there is still much to be
done and several elements that will
contribute to Mock Con’s success are
uncertain, Eddy says that the Mock
Con team remains conﬁdent.

“It’s all going to come together.”

nice alternative to his usual
Wednesday nights, “and I always
want to come out and support the
musicians.” Music majors Hillary
Bryant and Hampton Pasley agree.
“We dig Terry Vosbein!”

Among the students who
stopped in, freshman Jane Ledlie
said that, “it’s a good break for those
of us who can’t go out. It’s much
better than the Co-op!”

Senior Hillary Everist agreed and
added, “I think it’s great to have fac-
ulty here to talk to in a relaxed atmo-
sphere. And it’s the only good cof-
fee place open in town this late.”

“Java at the GHQ” will be open
8:30p.m-1 :00a.m.

Compared to The Ruse, the cof-
fee house on Nelson Street that
closed this past fall, many actually
prefer “Java at the GHQ.

“I think it might do better than
The Ruse,” said Hillary Everist. “It’s
much closer.”

Dean of F.reshman Mark
Dahlhouse claimed, “The Ruse was
okay.”

“It was kind of dirty,” added se-
nior Kelly Stewart. “And expensive.”

Over-priced coffee, cappuccino,
and hot chocolate are things that
“Java at the GHQ” customers will not

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 2000

photo by Tiffany Friedel/Assistant Photo Editor

THE CLOCK TICKS: Kirk Garrett, Mark Schweppe, Dave Dardis, and Carolyn Richardson gather around one of the computers in
the Mock Con office working on a few last minute details.

Coffee house exceeds expectations
Wednesday night’s “Java at the GHQ” deemed a great success

have to worry about. “Thanks to the

grant money and Royal Cup’s dona_-, , ,

tion of all the equipment, we can af-
ford to price everything from $.75-
$1.85.” says Dr. Horton.

Student Activities Marjorie
Schiff has various bands and two
Outing Club Slide Shows lined up
for the coming weeks. “But I would
like to see this become a place where
students provide the entertainment.
Either a student band, a poetry read-
ing, a comedian, or even the IFC rent-
ing the place out for a pledge activ-
ity. Mindbending Productions is
also excited about putting on shows
here since The Ruse closed.”

Juniors Heather McDonald and
Matt Herman are the student man-
agers of “Java at the GHQ.” Both
have previous experience working in
coffee shops. McDonald said that
she was “absolutely thrilled” with
the turnout.

“It went far and above my expec-
tations. I expected to See a majority
of freshman and sophomores, but
the group that came was much more
diverse.”

“The turn-out was excellent,”
Herman agreed. “Hopefully we’ll
see just as many folks there next
week.”

  

photo by Tiffany Friedel/Assistant Photo Editor

COLD, HARD AND WET. Two students take a break from school work, and pummel each other with
snowballs in front of Graham-Lees dormitory after Wednesday night’s snowfall.

  

 

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
MOCHA OR LATTE? Freshmen Sarah Sager, Janet Carter, Vicky
Balestriere, and Susan Woodward sip on coffee, eat desserts, and
discuss philosophy during “Java at the GHQ’s” opening night.

‘‘20/20’’ to
land in Lex

By Max Smith

NEWS EDITOR

John Stossel, correspondent for
ABC’s “20/20,” and “The John Stossel
Specials,” is coming to Washington
and Lee University next week.

Stossel will speak in Lee Chapel on
Tuesday, Feb. 1, at 7 p.m. Titled “Pan-
dering to Fear: The Media’s Crisis
Mentality,” the speech willaddress the
validity of society’s criticisms of his
own profession. Does the media re-
ally blow issues out of proportion?

“We’ve very excited to have Stossel
speak,” said Contact chairperson Eliza-
beth Harvey. “He’s known for an atypi-
cal perspective on the media.”

Stossel joined “20/20” in 1981 and
began doing primetirne specials in 1994.

Stossel has won 19 Emmy Awards
and been honored five times for excel-
lence in consumer reporting by the
National Press Club. _

The specials, which have consis-’
tently rated among the top news pro-:
grams when aired, have brought
Stossel critical acclaim. The Dallas
Morning News called him “the most
consistently thought-provoking TV
reporter ofour time.”

 

 
 

 

    

@112 ﬂing-tum ilﬂhi
January 24, 2000

OPINION:
What the hell is Mock Con?

PAGE 2
MOCK CON SPECIAL

A preview to this weekends events

PAGES 3-6

SPORTS:
Tough times on the road

PAGE 7
LAST WORD:
Mock Con Induces nausea

PAGE 8

   
  
  

  
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
   

   

photo by Lisa Lin/Assistant Photo Editor
STRESSED OUT: Ben Thompson
works feverishly on last minute
Mock Con work, see inside.

—é -

 

  
  

PAGE 2

 

(ﬂip: iaing-tum iﬂlii

PINION

JANUARY 24, 2000

1,001 things that irritate

me: Speed freaks

Every child, I imagine, has been
well informed about the Tortoise and
the Hare. And, I would assume that

most semi-intelligent kids are able to ,

gather the intended message from it —
you know, “slow and steady wins the
race.” Complaint #3 from yours truly is
more of a request than a gripe; I motion
to have this allegory
banned perma-
nently from the cur-
riculum in Lexington
schools. . . wait,
make that all schools in the South.

Before you peg me as book-bumer,
hear me out and perhaps you will sec-
ond this motion. The problem is that it
appears this ‘speed isn’t everything’
idea has been taken to the extreme in
and around Metro-Lex.

Since when does it take 15 min-
utes to make a junior Frosty? Why
does mail take 10 times as long to get
to Lexington than it does to leave?
Why does it take 45 minutes to order
a drink at The Palms and twice as long
to get it at Spanky’ s? Need I ask why
movies in Lexington are video re-
leases everywhere else? Why does
that take so long? Why does it take
20 minutes stopping at every blasted
trafﬁc light to get down Main Street?
And, do not even get me started on
Lexington drivers!

The frightening thing is that this
lethargy is all—consuming and se-
verely contagious. Civilized students
all around campus rejoiced at the pros-
pect of the new Applebee’s restau-
rant. “At last!” they cried, “a real res-
taurant” (forget the fact that I person-
ally would never even have consid-
ered my local, Chicago Applebee’s a
dining option, but I too joined in the
elation when this establishment
opened its doors earlier this year).

Oh, but Generals! We were so
desperately blinded by our delight
that we failed to recognize that, na-
tional chain or not, this was Lexing-
ton! Translation: service is still slow
and sluggish because though the
name exudes normalcy, the employ-

  
 

'”“~.~.

 
     

  Katy Harding ’01

ees remain students of the Tortoise.

V And you would think that all this de-
liberative, unhurried action produces
thorough, quality results? Um. . . no.
Applebee’s still cannot understand that
a Diet Coke with no ice means you
don’t put ice in the glass regardless of
how long they ponder the request.

Who do I
speak to about
this anyway? Is
there no one who
will claim respon-
sibility for this disorganization and tor-
por? Who, at Kroger, decides to open
only one register on Friday aftemoons
when every social-minded fraternity
guy will be there? Why does-Subway
only have one sandwich artist work-
ing on Sunday evenings?

Don’t think that we as students are
immune to this inﬁltration of indolence,
however. I am regularly caught strid-
ing behind THE SLOWEST WALK-
ERS ON EARTH right here on the Hill.
You know who these people are and I
am not talking about gaping
prospectives and their parents. This
species of student is a herd animal,
often traveling in packs, allowing them
to increase their effectiveness at slow-
ing down everyone else simply be-
cause they leave no alternative space
to pass. They meander down the Col-
onnade and bumble through the Co-
op, causing trafﬂc jams like Lexington
has never seen.-.

I am not suggesting that I am racing
to get to class, but there is no reason on
this earth why I should have to hover in
the rain because some students have
chosen to hold the next Rumor Mill

‘ meeting in the middle of Stemmon’s Plaza

during the passing period.

The easygoing attitude character-
istic of Lexington and the South lends
certain quaintness to the place. The
peaceful silence of inactivity is some-
what welcome when you want to sit
back and relax after a hectic day in
class. However, I do not think that it
was necessary to take this idea and run
with it. . . or amble slowly along with it.

/Eiuote of the Week:

((

If you’re going to be noisy, get

a hotel room.

—— Anonymous girl

@112 ilitng-tum iﬂlti

J}

It’s Mock Con time!

What the hell is Mock Con?

Does anyone even know what
they’re excited about? Of course we’re
all aware of the enthralling keynote
speaker and the pending C-SPAN cov-
erage. Honestly,
all Ireally know is
that I’ m sup-
posed to be
nauseauously
drunk and ride on a ﬂatbed waving a
ﬂag from a state that l’ve only been to
for a few -hours. I more excited about
not having to go to history class on
Friday than hearing Bill Bennett speak.

I’m also teed off because New Jer-
sey (my home state) has better seat-
ing than my delegation. At least I get
to sit in front of Guam. I love the fact
that this school appropriates hun-
dreds of thousands of dollars just so
the students can try not to throw up
on national television. I also contend
that everyone who joined a state that
start with an “A” just to be closer to
the cameras should be smacked. Here’s
another little teaser, C-SPAN hasn’t
even conﬁrmed coverage yet. I’m will-
ing to bet that if this whole debauchery
isn’t televised, the Warner Center is go-
ing to be more deserted than a study
skills class on a Friday night.

However, at least this is another

What the hell is Mock Con anyway?

 

 Soon to be 5th year
 Taylor Ruilova ’00

Executive Editor
Associate Editor

News Editor

Opinions Editor
W&Life Editor

Sports Editor

Last Word Editor

Copy Editor

Photo Editor

Assistant Photo Editors

Layout Editor

Polly Doig
Michael Crittenden
Max Smith
Stephanie Bianco
Elianna Marziani
Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin
Heather McDonald
Emily Barnes

Lisa Lin

Dave Hanson
Tiffany Friedel
Neal Willetts

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum

Java @ GHQ. . . When I first heard about the plan I
wondered how it could ever compare to my old haunt, the
Ruse. The Ruse was a coffee house in the truest sense of
the word, full of
music and po-
etry, big bowls of
coffee, and inter-
esting characters
that are indig-
enous to coffee houses. The GHQ on the other hand, is a
place associated with lunch and dinner and the university
meal plan. (Really good quesadillas though.) Could coffee
ever come to the GHQ in it’s full glory? Apparently. . . yes.

Before the evening, co-manager and general partner in
crime Matt Herman and I were discussing how nervous we
were. About the only thing we could say was, “I hope

   

   
   

A

« '1.
A k

‘ Heather McDonald ‘O1

 

V Coffee Talk

otherwise independent.

libel and obscenity.

Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Ofﬂce: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@w1u.edu
http://wIu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

“Freezing my nipples off and
showing off my guns."

people come. I hope the coffee’s good. I hope everything’s
cool.” After the ﬁrst hour, there were people pouring into

TALI{back...What’s the best part about pledgeship?

-Alex Poor ’03

“The cookies."

time—honored W&L tradition that en-

courages youth alcoholism. In acknow-

ledgement of our patronage, Jim Beam

bourbon has issued the Mock Conven-

tion commemerative fifth. l’m also sure

that the majority of the state ﬂoats are

going to incorpo-

rate some type of
oversized bottles

of booze or giant

cans ofNatty. I’m

sure the good people of Lexington are

going to appreciate having the bustling

streets of town tied up for hours for the

parade and the elephant sh** and vomit

cleanup afterwards. Students are more

likely to remember getting their stom-
achs pumped at Stonewall than any-

thing Bob Dole says.

I”m not saying that I’m going to sit
out for all the festivities, on the con-
trary, I plan to be drunkenly touting
my Republican pride. I do have a prob-
lem, however, with such a costly affair
that nine out of 10 people are clueless
about. All this event really is is an ex-
cuse for students to yet again embarass
their parents with their alcohol problems,
but this time it’s televised. Well, here’s
to Mock Con, so tip back the Beam and
try not to fall off the ﬂoat. Oh, and morn
and dad, please excuse me in advance
for trying to imitate Dole’s arm on stage
in my drunken stupor.

the University Center to get coffee, listen to good jazz
and just to see what the whole endeavor was about. All
Matt and I could do was stand at the espresso machine
and make drinks and smile. Our estimates showed that
there were about 300 people in and out through the
evening. Maybe it’s beginner’s luck, but what a rush.
My experience with coffee shops is probably anything
but positive. I’m used to customers getting mad about the
amount of foam on their skirn-2 pumps of vanilla—latte and
threatening to throw it at me. To be able to see the real
essence of a coffee house instead of the morning commuter
java-stop I’m used to is wonderful. If all works well, this idea
of a campus coffee house will be incorporated into the Uni-
versity Commons once it is built. This coffee house would
have full coffee house facilities, couches and comfy.chairs,
yet would still have the convenience of being on campus.
The next few weeks will be the real test, on whether
people come and continue to support Java @ the Q. W&L

-Kristen Mandaglio ’03 my pledge trainer."

—Betsy Ely ‘03

 

“The great upperclassmen and

.“$»"

 

photo courtesy of Leybu Library Special Collections

1968 MOCK CONVENTION: W&L student works on a ﬂoat
in preparatidn for the Mock Con parade.

Good coffee and more found at Java @ Q

students have a bad rap for being apathetic, for simply work-

ing hard and partying hard. The students who showed up 1
last Wednesday night proved that image is incorrect, at 1

least with some of the population, and hopefully they and
more will keep showing up.

What was so impressive was the mix of people who
showed up: Greeks and independents, freshmen and se-
niors. . . the mix was truly a mix, which we all know is a rare
occurrence at W&L. Some people l’ve talked to say that it
won’t last. I know there are a lot of strikes against us. Yes,
the program is on-campus, and it is a university program.
No one will have stories about Java @ the Q that start off
with “One night when I was really drunk...”

Instead, there might be some good music and interest-
ing conversation. You can chill with friends, or do home-
work somewhere other than the library. And, of course, you
can enjoy great coffee and (soon to be famous) hot choco-
late. What more could you want? See you Wednesday.

 

“I love my pledge trainer. . . I am
a happy PiKA pledge."
-Jason Smee ’03

 

 

Ellie ilttng-tum lﬂlti

OCK

 

CON 2000

SPECIAL MOCK CONVENTION PULLOUT

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

JANUARY 28 - 29, 2000

Predicting a president: .Mock Cn gears up ;

Delegates, politicians, and maybe an elephant or two will
gather to see if students’ research will produce results

By Elianna Marziani
FEA TURESEDITOR

Washington and Lee University is four days away
from celebrating one of its most exciting events, the
famed quadrennial Mock Convention. In past years,
Mock Con has gained a national reputation, being
named “one of the nation’s oldest and most presti-
gious mock conventions” by The Washington Post
and “a serious attempt to

eas and get a feel for public opinion in those areas.
By conducting careful and precise research, stu-
dents are able to gauge the nation’s sentiments and
predict its choice for the out—of-office presidential can-
didate, rather than merely nominating a person that
they, as a fairly limited and unrepresentative body,
would select independently. This meticulous research
is what sets W&L’s Mock Convention apart and makes
it what Harry Truman called “a real convention.”
The chairmen of the

predict how the profes- convention were selected
tsrixonals Vi]/illlline up when MOCK CON SUCCESS RATE: in 1990, tshe regti)on2:l9;Ifi;-
e rea t ing comes rectors in eptem er ,
along” by Newsweek. Ev-  f0RRECT w”:wIL”':I" JENNINGS BRYAN the state chairs the
eryone has heard the NCOR(Rv[é]Cl:S:::ECUE[:::: T::r::lNAn0N) middle of last year, the
hype, seen the posters, ’ officers of delegations
and paid his $20 to get  EOERECTWWCMMESEVMSHUGHES second semester last
onto the floor: now what 1924 C3 OWETION H3”) W D year, and the delegations
exactly IS Mock Con? I‘928 COHRECTWITH A0"; ' AVIS themselves in the fall of
The W&L Mock Con- 1932 CORRECT WHHFIISRITIITH 1999. Last year, Mock Con
vention is an event in “E "H ' ' Chairman Mark
which Student body del_ 1936 INCERRECT wiTH AURTHUR VANDENBERG Schweppe said, “We
egates make a prediction 1940 INC(0::::rNv::r:Eg::RTL:: EOIIVQIEQTAIES) hope to have, by the time
as to whom the out-of-of- ’ the convention takes
fice party will nominate as (WXLKIE RECEIVED THE NOMINATION) place . . . close to 90 per-
. . . . 1944 N 0 CONVENTION HELD .
its presidential candidate 1948 INCORRECT WITH VANDENBERG cent [of students] in-
for the year’s election. (DEWEY RECEIVED THE NOMINATION) Volved in some way or
Traditionally, Mock Con another.” '
has been a uniquely accu_ 1952 CORRECTWITH DwiGHT EisENHowER NOW he Says “I think
. . 1956 CORRECT WITH ADLAI STEVENSON ,
rate predictor of the ulti- 1960 CORRECT J F KE we re well over 90 percent
mate candidate, named Wm‘ OHN ' NNEDY at this point. There are
.. - , 1964 CORRECT WITH BARRY G0LDwATER
the nation s most accu- 1,660 student delegates,
. ,, 1968 CORRECT WITHRICHARD Nix0N , .
rate mock convention by and that doesn t include
. . 1972 lNCoRREcr WITH EDWARD M. KENNEDV .
United Press International (MCGOVERN RECEIVED THE NOMINATION) the 28 member steering
in 1976. As the conven— 1976 CORRECT WITHJIMMY CARTER committee or the 55 state
tion is usually held in andterritory chairmen.
March before most ofthe 1980 CO CTWITH RONALD REAGAN Don’t let anyone fool
’ . 1984 CORRECT WITH WALTER MONDALE . . .
state conventions, Mock you into thinking that
C 1988 CORRECT wiTH MICHAEL DUKAKIS .
on serves as a true pre- Mock Con is merelyatwo-
dic-tor ofthe nominee, not  §(?l§ll:l§g,:w'm]l:[LLI():LImoN day event on Jan. 28th
merely a reﬂection ofwhat WITH OB OLE and 29th. The celebration

is already commonly

P known. The students’ desire to truly make Mock Con a

predictor was reﬂected this year when they switched
the date for Mock Con from March to January, in order
to remain in the forefront of election predictions and
notjust a stale repetition ofthe results of various other
polls and primaries.

To ensure a correct prediction, students conduct
grassroots research at the state and local levels. Five
regional coordinators supervise 55 state and territory
chairmen, who are responsible for forming committees
to contact officials and citizens of their respective ar-

Parade full of ﬂoats, wrestlers and elephants, oh

By Elianna Marziani
FEA TURES EDITOR

Coming soon to Lexington: skiiers, surfers, wrestlers,
hula dancers, bagpipes, a mariachi band, and an African
elephant. This could only be a Mock Con parade.

For more than 20 years, the Mock Convention has

), sponsored a parade preceding the actual convention, and

this year is no exception. Junior biology major Spencer
Liles has been working for almost a year as Parade Chair-
man to coordinate this Mock Convention’s parade, and

_ from all accounts, the work will be evident in the event.

Each delegation is required to submit a ﬂoat in the

_ parade, so there should be 55 ﬂoats representing the 50
;_ states and five territories that have Votes in the primary.
‘ Each state was required to spend at least $85 on its ﬂoat,

I’

has been a year—long
event to take hold ofthe student body and get it inter-
ested and excited in the changes in national politics
and its role in these changes. It began with the Spring
Kick-off April 26-28 last year. Mock Con hosted a Presi-
dential Issues Forum, a media panel made up of such
notables as Howard Feinman, Bill Schneider, Jim
Barnes, and Howard Cook, an address by Lamar
Alexander, and in cooperation with the Student Ac-

SEE ‘CONVENTION’ ON PAGE 4

but several delegations have gone above and beyond
the minimum to ensure a wonderful representation of their
state in the parade.

The Minnesota delegation, led by sophomores Neely
Baker and Alicia Brandt, is putting together a ﬂoat made
into a wrestling ring. They plan on having a World Wres-
tling Federation theme. The wrestling ring ﬂoat will carry
people dressed up as wrestlers, staging a fight between
Minnesota governor Jesse Ventura (an ex-professional
wrestler) and Texas Republican hopeful George W. Bush,
complete with a referee and announcer. There are 34 del-
egates, and Brandt hopes that they will all show up to
help build the ﬂoat. The delegation is devoted to making
their ﬂoat great, and plans on spending about $200 on it.

Liles said that the Washington, D.C. delegation is plan-
ning, under the direction of juniors Liz Borges and Emily

 

photo courtesy of Leybum Librarys Special Collection s

The 1952 parade, which was held in April, featured a fire truck decorated with toilet paper.

photo courtesy Ley burn Library Special Collections

DELEGATES at the 1972 Democratic Mock Convention committed a rare error, and mistakenly
nominated Sen. Edward M. Kennedy. George McGovern received the nomination.

Ramey, on creating a humorous ﬂoat
based on Bill Clinton and his White
House experiences, but he did not
want to reveal all of their secrets.

Other promising ideas include the
Virginia delegation’s “Virginia is for
lovers” theme, North Carolina’s Andy
Griffith theme, the Utah delegation’s
plan to drag snow skiiers behind them,
and the Hawaii delegation’s trailing
surfers.

These delegations will compete
with all the others for first, second
and third place honors in the Most
Humorous and Best Overall catego-
ries; the judges will include president
John Elrod and possibly Mimi Elrod,
professor of accuonting ' Lyn
Wheeler, and Brenda Hartless of the
Co-op. Winners will receive trophies
and recognition in the first session
of Mock Convention on Friday mom-
ing.

The hour-long parade will begin
Friday morning at 10:30 at Brewbaker
Field, the Lexington public ﬁeld be-
hind the hospital. It will then curve
onto Main Street, travel from Main
Street to Washington Street, head
west toward the W&L campus, and
end on the Baker—Davis-Gilliam quad.
The ﬂoats will then travel up to the
Ruins to disassemble.

While the ﬂoats appear to be quite
promising, they are only one part of
the parade. Liles has also secured a
few horse groups to come in, includ-
ing the Victorian Sidesaddle Society.
The Lexington Fire Department is
bringing a few engines to the parade,
as well. Miss Virginia, Crystal Lewis,
will be a guest of honor in the parade,
riding in a horse-drawn carriage
through the streets of Lexington. A

SEE ‘PARADE’ ON PAGE 6

 

my!

425. r ' 7* *

 

A;

photo courtesy of Leybum Library Special Collections

’BAMA!: Members of the Alabama delegation get rowdy with
the excitement of Mock Convention 1960. The Convention
correctly predicted John F. Kennedy, Jr. as the Democratic
Party’s nominee.

 

 

PAGE 4

MOCK

@112 iﬁing-tum iﬂlri

CON 2 O 0 0 

Key Republican leaders to headline Mock Convention

J.C. Watts, Jr. is currently serving his third term in the
U.S. House of Representatives. Rep. Watts serves in the
fourth highest—ranking Republican position in the U.S. House
as House Republican Conference Chairman. As a demon-
stration of his inﬂuence, Rep. Watts was selected to give
the Republican Response to President Clinton’s 1997 State
of the Union Address. Watts attended the University of
Oklahoma where he after quarterbacking the Sooners to
consecutive Big Eight Championships and Orange Bowl vic-
tones.

William J. Bennett is one of our nation’s most informed
and well-respected advocates of education reform. While
currently serving as a Co—Director for Empower America in
Washington, DC, Dr. Bennett has served as Secretary of
Education and Chairman of the National Endowment for
the Humanities under President Reagan and Director of
the Ofﬁce of National Drug Control Policy under President
Bush.

Gov. Frank Keating was reelected in 1998 and became
only the second governor in Oklahoma history to win a
second consecutive term. In 1985 he accepted appoint-
ment as Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, and later
served as Associate Attorney General. In 1990, he joined
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Jack Kemp
as General Counsel and Acting Deputy HUD Secretary.

.«.»:.. ‘- ’ 

Q‘ 

photo courtesy Ley burn Library Special Collections

AMERICAN GOTHIC: The Nebraska ﬂoat in 1968.

Gov. Keating currently serves as Chairman of the Republi-
can Governors’ Association and sits on the Executive Com-
mittee of the National Governors’ Association.

Congressman Bob Goodlatte is currently serving his
fourth term as the Co-Chairrnan of the bipartisan Congres-
sional Intemet Caucus and the Chairman of the House
Republican High Technology Working Group. Goodlatte
has been a leader in Congress on a number of Internet and
high—tech issues including encryption, piracy prevention,
anti—counterfeiting, online service provider and copyright
liability, to name a few. Congressman Goodlatte also serves
on the Judiciary Committee and the Agriculture Commit-
tee.

Jim Nicholson was re-elected to a second two-year tenn
as Republican National Committee (RNC) Chairman in Jan.
1999. During his first term, the RNC enjoyed record-break-
ing fundraising success, and Nicholson emerged with a
reputation for consensus building and focusing on the
issues that unite all Republicans. Nicholson also served
as the Colorado National Committeeman on the RNC for
the past 12 years where he led from a variety of assign-
ments including chairing the RNC’s Rules Committee, serv-
ing on the budget committee, and representing the West-
ern States as RNC Vice-Chainnan. As a small businessman

2:00 National Anthem
2:05 Invocation V
2: 10 Call for Convention
2:15 Credentials Committee Report
2:20 Rules Committee Report
2:25 Election of Permanent Chairmen
-General
-Personnel
—Political
2:30 Opening Remarks
-General Chair
-Personnel Chair
-Political Chair
2:45 Address from the University
2:55 Greetings from Lexington

3:20 Address

3:40 Address

4:05 Parade Award Winners
4:20 Benediction

4:25 Adjournment

.4
5

3 :05 Address from the Advisory Board
Mayor Bret Schundler (Jersey City, NJ)

and veteran of Republican politics at the local, state, and
national, Nicholson now serves in the Republican Party’s
top leadership post.

Sen. William E. Brock ‘53 has served in numerous
public service capacities. He began his career as a repre-
sentative for the third district ofTennessee (1963-1970) in
the House of Representatives and then held one term as a
senator from 1971 to 1976. Following these two positions,
Brock was elected Chairman of the Republican National
Committee from 1977 to 1980 and served as a U.S. Trade
Representative from 1981 to 1985. In addition, Sen. Brock
acted as the Secretary of Labor from 1985-1987 under Presi-
dent Reagan.

Time magazine considers Mayor Bret Schundler one
of America’s most promising young leaders. At the age of
33, Bret Schundler became the first Republican to be elected
Mayor in Jersey City since the First World War. In 1997, he
was re-elected in his second landslide victory to Jersey
City’s longest serving mayor in 30 years: all in a city that
was 65 percent minority, largely working—class, and only 6
percent Republican. Nationally, Mayor Schundler is best
known as a leader in the ﬁght for parental choice in educa-
tion and as a defender of religious liberty. Reader ’s Digest,
The Wall Street Journal, The New York Times, The Wash-
ington Post, and Parade Magazine have all proﬁled Mayor

Schundler. He has appeared on public affairs television
programs ranging from “The Charlie Rose Show” to “This
Week With David Brinkley.”

Recognized as one of the United States’ most promi-
nent ﬁgures of the 20th Century, Senator Bob Dole has a
distinguished record of public service that continues to
make a difference to Americans. As the Republican Presi-
dential nominee in 1996, Dole offered himself to Americans
as an honorable leader. Dole’s candidacy for the White
House cemented his reputation as an honest, respected
statesman who will long be considered one of the most
powerful legislators of our times. President Clinton awarded
him the Presidential Medal of Freedom as a tribute to his
character and contributions to the nation. Senator Dole
was also awarded the Department of Defense Medal for
Distinguished Public Service. Of Dole as Senate Majority
Leader, Ronald Reagan has said, “His title of Leader is not
just a job title, it’s a description of the man.” President
Bush called Senator Dole “a great Republican Leader, as
great as any in the past.” Bob Dole is one of only 16 Ameri-
cans to serve as Senate Majority Leader and his first stint
in that position in the mid-1980s won praise nationwide.
According to Congressional Quarterly, Senator Dole,
“proved a point that badly needed proving at the time: the
Senate could be led.”

SCHEDULE or EVENTS

Southern Comfort

9:10 Friday’s Keynote Address

FRIDAY, JANUARY 28, 2000 SIMON H
10:30 am, Parade 7:15 PM Pre-Convention Entertainment, Wildgrass
7:30 Call to Order Dr. William F. Connelly, Jr.
51355.01»; 1 7:35 Invocation Rev. David Cox
1215 p.m. Pre-Convention entertainment Wildgrass 7340 TBA
1:45 p.m. Call to Order Dr. William F. Connelly, Jr. 8:00 Platform Address Chairman Jim Nicholson (RNC)
1:50 Presentation of Colors VMI Color Guard 3125 P1atf0l'm Commlttee ReP01T Heather Howard
1 :55 Pledge of Allegiance Capt. Robert Peniston 3330 Platf0ml Debate DaVld Dardis

Representative J . C. Watts (R-OK)

Rev. William Klein 9340 Belledleilml
Carolyn Richardson 9:45 Adjournment David Dardis
Malloy Evans
Kirk Garrett SATURDAY, JANUARY 29, 2000
Kirk Garrett .
SEssioN III
8:30 a.m. Pre-Convention Entertainment
9:00 Call to Order Dr. William F. Connelly, Jr.
9:05 Presentation of Colors VMI Color Guard
Mark Schweppe 9:10 Pledge of Allegiance Brian Shaw
Juliet Bickford 9: 15 National Anthem TBA
David Dardis 9:20 Invocation Burr Datz
president John w, Elmd 9:30 Opening Address Rep. Bob Goodlatte
Mayor Buddy De;-rick 9:45 Address Secretary William Bennett

Hon. William E. Brock

Gov. Frank Keating (R-OK)

10:10 Keynote Address
10:40 Nominations for President
—Roll Call of the States

The Honorable Robert J. Dole

Spencer Liles Nominations for Vice-President
Rev. William Klein 12:40 pm apprx. Closing
Juliet Bickford 12:45 apprx. Benediction Burr Datz
Adjournment Mark Schweppe

‘CONVENTION’ FROM PAGE 3

tivities Board, Willie Nelson in concert.

This year, students came together in pre—Mock Con
excitement to enjoy the November Presidential Gala.
This Friday, the Mock Con weekend itselfwill begin at
10:30 a.m., when ﬂoats representing all of the states
will parade through the streets of Lexington, adding
to the air of excitement surrounding the convention.
The Convention will hopefully result in the seventh
consecutive and 17th overall correct prediction ofthe
presidential nominee, this time for the Republican party.

W&L students have been correct in 16 of 21 at-
tempts since 1908, when it was started. The first Mock
Convention occurred in reaction to the great interest
and excitement felt on campus when William Jennings
Bryan visited. Students decided to hold a mock Demo-
cratic convention, in which they elected Bryan as the
democratic candidate —~ a vote that was then repeated

at the Democratic National Convention, starting W&L
off on its prestigious political prediction path. While
some ofthe beginning conventions were clearly tainted
by students’ own political views and passions (the
1908 convention has become notorious for a ﬁght that
started on the ﬂoorl), since 1952 the conventions have
become much more research-intensive and hence much
more accurate. Only one prediction since 1952 has been
incorrect; in 1972, students chose Edward Kennedy
rather than George McGovern.

Some conventions have been tragic, such as the
1956 election in which former Vice President Alben
Barkley of Kentucky collapsed dead on-stage after de-
livering an exuberant and inspiring speech in the 90
degree convention weather.

Others have been humorous, such as the 1972 con-
vention when unknown Jimmy Carter, then governor

of Georgia, came to deliver the keynote address but
was abandoned by his press secretary Jody Powell
who had instead joined some W&L students and
alumni, andjoined them in playing pinball and drink-
ing beer on Main Street during the speech.

Some have been entertaining, such as the 1988 con-
vention when then Arkansas Governor Bill Clinton par-
tied with the students at a fraternity house, playing
his saxophone.

Some have been downright amazing, such as the
famed famed Mock Convention of 1924, in which stu-
dents correctly chose W&L alumnus John W. Davis,
someone who had not even declared candidacy.

All have been memorable. If the time and energy
put into it is any indication, this year’s will be no dif-
ferent.

      

  
 

  

 

photo courtesy of the Leybnin Library Special Collection

ELEPHANTS 0N PARADE: The 1964 Mock Convention Parade walks down Washington Street. The Parade is one of the most anticipated parts of the convention, because it lets students show their
delegation pride and also their levels of creativity in ﬂoat design.

 

  

I

t

  CON 2000 

_ The ﬂoor plan for Mock Con 2000

        

BLBCHERS (1250 SEATS)

 
 
 
 

 

    

 

~ Pl i3i‘———25——-"l|3|“‘—2°——’1

FILM MEDIA (16x8)

  

   

 
    

     

‘photo courtesy of the Leybrun Library Special Collection
The members of the Puerto Rico delegation

took things seriously and got into the island
spirit in 1960.

 
 

      

” l+————35——————-H+—15—-L 35————+i

|.____
V sTAGE&PoDIuM D D D U

SC & TABULATION PRINT MEDIA

 
 

 

 =»:~:v (-

.>

photo courtesy of the Leybmn Library Special Collection
ROCKEFELLER OR NIXON? A student gives a speech at the 1968 Mock Con. Mock Con gives many W&L

students leadership opportunities, mainly because the whole school is involved in every organizational aspect of
the convention.

 
 
     
  

 

@112 iﬂing-tum lﬁhi

MOCK

PAGE 6

CON 2 O O O 

THE WATERING HOLE

TmswHm:AgMa3Nba(C@qBma

elephants running through your skull. Elephants may
never forget, but drinking more than three of these
might cause you to forget your name, age, how to tie
your shoes and possibly gender. With this introduc-
tion, you may be thinking that this beer would be as

heavy as your Aunt Linda, but it is surpris-

ingly pale. The combination could prove

IMPORTED to be 
Once the brew emerges from

‘ 3 ‘ its rather stark and forbidding

I] the weak side. After the first
 ’  bottle, it appears to be a bit on
draught, however, it is readily

apparent that this is not ajoke.

.Even for larger individuals, who

are well experienced with the

darker sides of alcohol, this beer has

a definite kick. Honestly, Imported El-

ephant has bigger stones than the ma-

jority ofthe Republican party. For fans

of good head, you will not find it here

even though this is a Danish brew.

Despite the evident taste of hops, the

beer is smooth with a strong finish. This is

definitely a satisfying beer that eats like a

meal. The 7.2 percent

creeps up gradually leaving

7.2% Alcohol the consumer in a generally

bY V°'Ume good mood after a relatively

small (by W&L standards)

amount. The paleness ofthis lager conceals its hearty

body. Imported Elephant may not be the sexiest im-

port on the market but it is well suited for the events

of the upcoming week. This Carlsberg contender is

well worth the price of $6.70 and is available at the
Main Street Market.

By Taylor Ruilova & Michael Crittenden

BEER REVIEWERS

In the spirit of the drunkenness that Mock Con-
vention is said to entail, this week’s beer review took
to task the challenge posed by
one of Europe’s finest lagers,
Carlsberg Imported Elephant
beer. Named af-
ter the imposing
elephant statues
on the Elephant
Gate at
C a r 1 s b e r g ’ s
original brewery in
Copenhagen, Den-
mark, this is one of the
most popular beers in
the world. In England
alone, over one million
pints of Carlsberg are sold daily.
That’s about 23 pints a second. Ob-
viously the brewmasters at
Carlsberg are doing something right.

Not that I would question the_
Danes anyway, any country with
women that beautiful I’ll tend to trust
theirjudgment. Famous for the style
and grace from designers such as
Skagen, this well—crafted beer is like a
Hans Christian Andersen fairy tale, though not an ugly
duckling. Like the pachyderm on the label, this beer
has the ability to run you over, kick you in the ass,
and then stomp you on the chest. In fact, with an al-
cohol content of 7.2 percent, a night of drinking
Carlsberg will make you feel like you have a herd of

    
  

An Orson Welles’ Adaptation of Shakespeare

Feb- 4,5,7, ZOOO ' 8 p-I“n-
Feb- 6,  ° 2 p-n“i-

Kellen” _|_hc,-altirle ' Lonfost C<~i1tcrI‘

 "J.'.’. ‘..'..'>',!.

Directed by J. D. Martinez

.42-.» 131115....

K.— it  zsﬂ. v-ace ski: :oat13§;:x:t:2.b 2.»...

‘eﬁﬁaﬂi

   
 

,t.':2~_~.='m ‘-Zquccxg .  
' ‘ '. .
J. Si’-Id!"

 
    
   
    

 

g ‘.-jl3‘.’;.«Ln..’.t‘~‘*,,§g,->=. to
$tZ."('f3.7}T.‘, .'\*9$‘4 ‘ H ‘
. . _, _

   

  

2.‘

3 +3 ‘ 9" "“’
 W

    
  

  

.-_-.u_,g§_... -'

       
 
   
  
  

   
      

l

' -"  , ~'E5' : f:;1llr:':».‘n....i.*.3-"_,.."- ,l.*._‘fr.’~;-‘~'.~."“.5l‘-'
.   -‘w_5!‘.";-:m>l*1¢*«'<r. ' - . 'rl1x..‘{‘':.
;   ml} no §§..m;'-';.=r!
3. .g 2 ‘ .2-.-.Yw.' .- ~".u*.«.:¢-i.x'z -
,   =.‘:=:cl‘! in" eé?"§l3«r‘i"*
   2 . 2 2 -14% .
' w3mmmnur§*““me* ;

. l

“We.'re‘mare than lust hot dogs; we I‘
‘International wra ps aﬁéf’ " I”

1
‘Vi ".E§7»"A'J«". f'Il”!’U- .-‘3 ‘."Il1$'/‘:3’ .l':".vXl'Yf1.a~.€."

  
 
 
    
   

     
 

‘ﬁicgaivinllﬁ-'~;{‘l'  r. * '
» A a _ ‘ :4
-. - . t-.\w,;llr.~.'3:‘-“acv.

. ‘.0, "C-
; 2; ‘ - ~ ‘ ‘ . .~.-.“.-:wa*ae£

i 3w‘ Nelson St’ 3*7“""  .   

.3’ ‘
Lexington, VA 2445&:*‘t’:v 2:»-.*m:.rs:ooa.m. -.9:00p:m:  '
540-464-1501 I

~- as '=o3';s..t2m'='-" zrv'7_E 
Sat. -' l1:0Qa{m,,,.-.,, : lO%('»,"?.ﬁ1"'.i’:‘é.'§!‘!?3"

  

photo courtesy of Leybum Library Special Collection

MODERATE REPUBLICAN? A participant in the 1972 Mock Convention is a passive participant in
the the festivities. Mock Con is legendary among W&L students for its favorite mix of alcohol

and politics.

 

Stephanie Bianco
Indiana state Clrair

Nancy Dixon
Public Relations Clzair

Sarah Hall

Arkansas State Co-Chair

Jenny-Anne Kniesel
Oregon State Clzair

Karly Shallow
Utah State Clzair

Chi Omega Congratulates

 

All of Their Mock Convention Leaders

Amy Calce
Montana State Clzair

Erin Ferguson
New Mexico State Cliair

Heather Howard
Platform Clzair

Allison Ralston

Regional Coordinator

Mary Heather Welder
Memorabilia Clrair

 

 

JANUARY 24, 2000

 RT S

Road woes continue

By Mike Weil

STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee Generals
dropped to 0-8 on the road with two
more losses this week, falling 67-59 at
Emory and Hemy and 71-62 in a hard-
fought overtime battle at Eastern Men-
nonite. The Generals traded buckets
with the Wasps of Emory and Henry
for 38 minutes, only to let up in the
ﬁnal two minutes of the contest as they
were outscored 10-2.

Despite shooting only 38 percent
from the ﬁeld, the Wasps were able to
take advantage of 19 W&L turnovers
to help them emerge victorious. Jun-

, ior reserve Chad Braley was the only

General to reach the double-digit mark
in points, netting 11. Freshman
Toussaint Crawford and senior Walt
Plyler each contributed nine points in
the losing effort and senior Brian
Ricketts led the squad in rebounding
with_seven.

The Generals regulation heroics
turned into overtime blues Saturday
in their loss at Eastern Mennonite. The
Royals held a 57-54 advantage with
4.2 seconds remaining until junior Will
Ballard sank a leaning three pointer
with .9 seconds leﬁ on the clock. W&L
could not carry this momentum into
the extra frame, however, as EMU hit
10 of 14 free throws to claim a nine-
point victory.

"Aﬂer Will made that shot, I thought
we had the momentum," said senior
Scott Hudson. "But we got down early,

and they made their foul shots."

The Royals shot just 36 percent
from the ﬁeld and committed 25 tum-
overs, but went 33-44 from the charity
stripe to aid them in victory. Sopho-
more Bob Bustamante led the Gener-
als with 15 points, while Hudson tal-
lied 14 points and collected nine re-
bounds.

W&L now posts a 5-9 record over-
all, 4-7 in the ODAC. All ﬁve of their
wins have been at home.

“Obviously we play a lot better at
home," said Hudson. "But that's the next
step toward becoming a good team. We
have to learn to win on the road."

Hudson believes the Generals
started to play with the tenacity on
Saturday necessary to win on the road.
"We played with some passion defen-
sively, passion that's been lacking on
the road."

W&L hosts nationally top-ranked
Hampden Sydney Wednesday, a team

that blew them out the first timethey
met. "We deﬁnitely have a chance,"
continued Hudson. "We just have the
slow the game down, take off 25 or 30
seconds of the shot clock."

Wednesday’s game is the kickoff
for the Mock Convention weekend.
The ﬁrst 500 students through the
doors will receive a free Mock Con cup.
Mock Con will be giving away many
other promotional prizes at halftime

and throughout the game including a
VIP pass to the convention and din-
ner for two at The Wilson Walker
House. Tip-off is set for 7 p.m.

Strong start for indoor

By Steele Cooper

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men's
and women's track programs came out
strong at Saturday aftemoon’s Leba-
non Valley Invitational.

No team scoring was kept at the
meet, but women’s head coach John
Tucker felt that the showing by the
Generals is a sign of good things to
come for the team.

“Saturday was a great day and a
good opener for the Generals,” Tucker
said. “We’re a young untested team
with a lot of potential.”

On the women's side, the Gener-
als took first place in two relay
events. The 4x200-meter relay team
of seniors Jill Kosch and Nancy
Dixon, junior Amy Calce, and sopho-

‘ more Melissa Palombo with came out

on top with a time of2:03.0 and the
4x800-meter relay of freshmen Burke
Duncan and Kelly Schlicter, junior

k Kathleen Moroney, and senior Au-

tumn Oczkowski won with a time of
10:38.6.

Junior Amy Calce placed second
in the longjump with ajump of 15' 5.5"

" and Schlicter took fourth place in the

1,500-meter run. Kosch also repeated
the stand out performance with a fourth
place fmish in the 400-meter dash.

For the men, junior Marc Watson
showed the speed that makes him an
incredible offensive threat on the foot-
ball ﬁeld by winning the 55-meter dash
event with a time of 6.5 seconds.

Watson, recovering from the mono-
nucleosis that sidelined him for much
of football season, took the race from
several Bridgewater runners.
Bridgewater has been dominant in that
event prior to Watson’s arrival on the
scene.

Freshman David Hicks took first in
the 1,500-meter, with a time of 4: 19.2,
and junior Chris Wahl took fourth in
the shot put with a toss of 38' 7". Se-
nior Hansell Pasco placed third in the
200-meter dash with a time of 25.0 sec-
onds.

W&L still has several weapons in
its arsenal that have not been revealed.

“A lot of great athletes didn’t get
off the bench Saturday and we’ve got
others that are still playing other
sports,” said Tucker.

W&L travels to Carlisle, Pa., on
Saturday to compete in the Dickinson
Invitational.

7 (Photo by Dave Hanson/Assistant Photo Editor

OVER THE TOP: Junior heavyweight John Sensing overpowers
his opponent at the Washington and Lee Invitational Saturday.

W&L invites wrestlers

Washington and Lee sophomore
Ezra Morse won the 197-pound weight
class as the Generals placed fifth of
eight teams in the Washington and Lee
Invitational on Saturday afternoon at
the Warner Center.

Longwood College won the team
championship with 87 points and was
followed by Davidson (63), Washing-
ton & Jefferson (53.5), Scranton (52),
Washington and Lee (49.5),
Cumberland College (47), Pensacola
Christian (29), and Gallaudet (0).

Ian Kaplan of Davidson was named
the tournament's outstanding wrestler
after taking the 157-pound weight

class, the third time he has won his
weight class in the W&L Invitational.

Also putting together a solid per-
formance for W&L was junior Josh
Chamberlain, who ﬁnished second in
the l49—pound weight class.

Junior JeffPaul fell to Morse in the
championship of the l97—pound
weight class, fin_i_s_hing_as_ the runner-
up in that division, while junior John
Sensing placed third in the heavy-
weight division.

W&L is back in action on Saturday
when they travel to the Western Mary-
land Quadrangular.

—Courtesy of Sports Information

4-

 

‘I

  _  7”  
 iﬁ‘\"VVVR_‘i‘T.EA,iF"OR_::    .
T;  spams.   "1

1 'E-MIiit‘PHpi@wtu.EDu.' ; I

f—‘

$$$ EASY MONEY $$$

I will pay $40 for your
PHONE BOOK.

Call Lee Ramsey collect
(856) 577-7237

h~I.'4}f£.« our T]-

your life.

from your Army
Recruiter.

WE’ LL ERASE YOUR
COLLEGE LOAN.

If you’re stuck with a (federally insured)
student loan that’s not in default, the
Army might pay it off.

If you qualify, we’1l reduce your
debt—up to $65,000. Payment is
either ‘/3 of the debt or $1,500
for each year of service,
whichever is greater.

You’ll also have training
in a choice of skills and
enough self-assurance

to last you the rest of

Get all the details

  
   
    
 
  
   
  

ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE?

www.goarmy.com

 

‘ Obcouslr .‘hisi.t nol rnur t’1(.'t?r‘(7’£.
’ .3’ .3 A

 

PAGE 7

More ups and downs

By Robert Turner

STA FF WRITER

Washington and Lee’s women’s
basketball team (8-6, 5-5) experienced
another up and down week going 2-1
and grabbing an ODAC win. W&L
earned a victories over ODAC coun-
terpart Randolph-Macon Women’s
College and Villa-Julie, but fell to
ODAC nival Randolph-Macon.

Thursday the Generals traveled to
Lynchburg for a match-up with R-
MWC and used an 8-0 run to close
out the ﬁrst half on their way to a 69-
44 conference win.

The Generals used a nice balance
of inside and outside offense to put
the Wildcats away as sophomore for-
wards Jessica Mentz and Carter Tho-
mas had 16 and 12 points, respectively.
Senior guard Jessica Morton contrib-
uted 15 points to the effort.

The Generals took to the road again
Saturday for a game against ODAC
Randolph-Macon. W&L struggled
from the ﬂoor throughout the game,
shooting only 28 percent, and left

Ashland with a 64-51 loss. Despite the
Generals’ woes from the floor, the
game was knotted 51-51 with 7:31 re-
maining. R-MC was able to hold W&L
scoreless for the remainder to take the
win.

Once again, the Generals were
paced by Mentz (15 points) and
Morton (12 points), while sophomore
center Megan Babst recorded another
double-double. .

W&L had another road contest
Sunday, travelling to Stevenson, MD
to take on Villa Julie College.

The Generals performed solidly on
both ends of the ﬂoor, shooting 44% on
offense while forcing 28 turnovers on
defense. With that solid play, the Gener-
als were able to cruise to the 70-43 win.

Jessica Morton had another out-
standing performance, pouring in 19
points on 8-9 shooting from the ﬁeld.
Mentz (13 points, 6 rebounds) and
Babst (9 points, 5 rebounds) also gave
solid contributions.

The Generals look to gain an ODAC
win at Lynchburg on Thursday. Tip-
offis set from 7 p.m.

The split at Sewanee

By Steele Cooper

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee swim
teams returned to a somewhat normal
routine after last weekend’s back-to-
back-to-back meets. The Generals trav-
eled to the University of the South
Saturday and came away with the split.
The men’s team defeated the Tigers,
1 19-73. The women’s squad fell, 130-
65, to Sewanee.

The meet was originally scheduled
for Sunday, but was moved up to avoid
the snow that was forecast for the area.

The thirteen-hour drive to
Sewanee was the longest trip of the
season for the swimmers who are in
the middle of a four-meet regular sea-
son road stint.

Two swimmers for the W&L men each
came away with two wins on the day.
Junior Colin Hayes paced the men's
squad, ﬁnishing first in the 200 free
(1 :48. 19) and 100 ﬂy (52.50). Freshman
Patrick Frankfurtwonthe 500ﬁee(4:5623)
and 100 free (10: 12.08), and senior Ken
Ervin won the 50 free with atime of 2 1 .9.



£13‘

 yin >.’."’/<‘I.\.s

Freshman Kelli Austin led the
women’s squad with two individual
wins. Austin took ﬁrst place in the 100
free (56.16) and 200 free (2:01 .94). Fel-
low classmate Blair Huffman won the
100 ﬂy with atime of 1 104.32.

Exhaustion is still a factor for the
Generals even though Saturday's meet
was the only one for the week.

“We are at the peak of our training
right now in the season,” said Huffman.
“We are having our hardest workouts
now and everyone is very tired.”

The Generals are hoping that inten-
sity will pay off in the post season,
which begins with the ODAC tourna-
ment on Feb. 18.

“The pace will slow down in a few
weeks so that we can start resting.
Everyone is still swimming very well ,

.consideringhow,tired.we are. The out-
look [for ODAC tournament] is posi- ,
tive,” said Huffman.

W&L continues its string of road
contests on Sunday when it travels to
Mary Washington for a tri-meet with
the host Eagles and Rowan College.
The meetwill begin at2:00 p.m.

Na'turalIy,the c:.ourit.ry’s premiere leadership school

‘ offers only the latest in athietic equipment.

V rm. Sure, we .\‘f'I‘(.'i'¥gih{.'}iV)’011P berg)‘. But
we also strcn_i;‘t/1cn___yuur mind. T/1ut'.\' haw 1(‘t? go about building lmrlcrs‘.
Sh<Ipirig_)m:n_g men and r'(.'(>m(’n into ronjident, dcterrriined derision niukcrs.
So. like to_1¢IImalor>lmtIIie equipment? Call I«.s'(m«i\iAax2~: es. Or mlcif
at VyWW.MARINEO.FFICER.COM'. lAou’lIi love our new rope climb;

Tlte Fem The Proud.

 

 

PAGE 8

-8
~a
E”
E
B

70% faster

tLAsT WORD

JANUARY 24, 2000

Mock Con fever is making me ill

By Kevin McManemin

DYNAMTE VS. RADICAL HARRY

“Everything is changing. People are
taking the comedians seriously and the
politicians as a joke.” '

—Will Rogers

The politicians aren’t the only ones
lying these days. Chew on this quote
from the W&L Mock Con brochure:
In a decade when America's youth
have been dubbed ”disengaged, ”
"unmotivated, " and "apathetic," the
Mock Convention of Washington and
Lee University contradicts these gen-
eralizations with its raucous realism
and remarkable prediction rate.

Whoa, whoa, whoa, slow down
there, Skippy. Let’s not confuse Mock
Con fever with real interest in politics
—— if all Americans got a day off from
work and a three-day drunken party
for conventions, they’d be pretty
friggin’ excited about politics too.

Unfortunately, the simple fact is that

Americans are by in large not very in-
terested in democracy anymore, and
our generation in particular is about
as jaded, cynical and pessimistic as
Janeane Garofalo on a three-day
downer binge. According to the U.S.
census ofﬁce, only about 20 percent
of those between the ages of 18-24
bothered to vote in the 1994 elections.
Non-voters are the true largest politi-
cal group in this country.

So, what happened? I mean, de-
mocracy won, right? The spectres of
fascism and communism have been ex-
orcised from the world, and American-
style democracy rules the planet. Why
did our generation start to ﬁnd poli-
tics about as interesting as a PBS
pledge drive? Here are a few of the
reasons:

1) The blandification of politics

The extraordinary success rate of
Mock Con predictions in the past
couple of decades is not a sign that
we’re doing more research than we
used to — it’s a sign that American

returning morality and
accountability to the Of-
fice of President

a platform of compas-
sionate conservativism
family values

a broad-based, grass-
roots campaign

partisan politics is
gridlocking this country

<|.I<HI’: TRANSLATOR

When the politicians come to town next week, they sure
are going to use a lot of clichés! But what do they all
really mean? Use this handy cliche’ translator to find out!

electing someone who
will do a better job of
keeping his affairs from
the media

still brutalizing the poor,
but feeling bad about it
afterwards

my family's values

we couldn't afford a
professional campaign

the other side's partisan
politics

Experience refreshing Coca-Cola,

 

Fizzus

politics has become as utterly banal,
dull and predictable as an episode of
“Home Improvement.”

America is run by two centrist par-
ties that differ more in rhetoric than in
ideology (and in recent years they’ve
even begun swapping rhetoric). More
importantly, America is really run by
an all-powerful mainstream media that
brands anyone who dares venture a
little to the left or right of the political
spectrum a “wacko extremist.”

The only candidates who survive
in this culture are those more middle-
of-the-road than a highway divider.
We end up with men like George W.
and his shot at super-centrism with
“compassionate conservatism,” a pa-
thetic attempt to combine the feel-
good warmth of liberalism with the
common sense of conservatism. Will
this transparent effort to garner popu-
lar support work? Of course it will.
We’re talking about Americans here,
and these are the people for whom the
brain is at best the ﬁﬁh most impor-
tant vital organ, behind the heart, the
stomach, the naughty parts and the
wallet (anyone who doesn’t consider
the wallet a vital organ is a Commie).

American voters are the desperate
women in the singles bar of the world,
waiting to be picked up by some slick,
sleazy and utterly phony huckster who
tells them exactly what they want to
hear. They know they’re only going
to get screwed and used and lied to in
the end, but they don’t care. Pardon
non-voters for not buying into it all.

2) The only ﬁghts left are the bor-
ing ﬁghts

The greedy baby boomers
snatched up all of the good political
causes. They spent their formative
years immersing themselves in noble
ventures like ending the oppression
of minorities and ensuring equal rights
for women and stopping an unjust war
and ﬁnding the hidden messages in
Sgt. Pepper. What’s left for us? Noth-
ing remotely as exciting.

Despite the media insistence that

the WTO riots in Seattle signify a “re-
birth of activism,” the fact is that the
rioters represent a tiny, tiny fringe of
America. The WTO riots have about
as much in common with the popular
youth rallies and riots of the 1960’s as
Kid Rock has with Beethoven. The
WTO riots were perpetrated by a mot-
ley collection of anarchists, animal
rights extremists and labor unions. Is-
sues like collective labor arbitration
and equal rights for sea turtles are sim-
ply not going to capture the attention
of a generation the way ending a war
or stopping racism did. And anarchism
is the political equivalent to chocolate
covered pizza— it sounds like a good
idea at ﬁrst, but then when you actu-
ally think about it seems pretty damned
stupid.

We are not very politically involved
because idealism and ideology are not
nearly as interesting as the Internet.
Political activism is nice and all, but is
changing the world going to get you a
job, or buy you a CD, or provide you,
with top quality pornography on de-
mand? No. Can the Internet do all of
these things? Yes. So pardon me for
not being moved to action by the
plight of the snow leopards, but I’ve
got mail.

3) Where are the duels?

Back in the old days, when men like
Aaron Burr and Alexander Hamilton
had disagreements, they settled it by
going out into a ﬁeld and shooting at
each other. NOW THAT’S POLITICS!

Sadly, the days of Charles-
Sumneresque head thrashings on the
ﬂoor of Congress are forever behind
us. Modern politics is about consen-
sus building, not winning at all costs.
Even the much-lamented negative ad-
vertising politicians resort to doesn’t
come close to the nastiness and viril-
ity of campaigning back in the l800’s,
when political parties actually ran the
major newspapers and printed what-
ever they damed well felt like, no mat-
ter how little truth was involved.

So what happened? Well, it’s no

laslus

{ inviting lo the louchus }

classic in an ice-cold glass bottle at

The Washington & Lee Snack Bar for only 59¢.

Offer ends January 3|, 2000.

coincidence that politics started get-
ting a lot nicer and a lot more sensible
around the same time women were al-
lowed into politics. Public life used to
be about gratifying grand egos, amass-
ing power, and crushing the competi-
tion —— now it’s about “caring for the
community,” “securing our children’s
futures,” and “building bridges.”
Sure, this new femocentric (??) po-
litical style might be good for the com-
munity, but, come on, admit it, aren’t

Smilus

Sometimes it takes a special little “pick-me-up” to
ride daddy’s coat-tails into office. That’s why I reach
for Coke —— it gives me that Courtney-Love-shine I
need to keep going all campaign long. Cot Coke?

  
 
    
   

you just a little wistful for the good ol’
days? Wouldn’t it be thoroughly re-
freshing to see a presidential debate
in which Steve Forbes calls Al Gore
an “ass clown” and whacks him over
the head with a baseball bat?

It’s no wonder, then, that a genera-
tion weaned on a Clockwork-Orange-
like diet of television violence ﬁnds
politics insipidly boring. Want to save
democracy for the 215‘ century? Three
simple words: dueling on C-SPAN.

Wﬁﬂenioy

cmmmcouoncamuq.-cauo=u'aamcmmaom.am..nqm.umumuamcoucouc.mpq

 

  

