{$72,755
K557...
v~ I07»
500.17
c.» ‘2___

Ultra ilttrtg-tit

JAMES G. LEYBURN LIBRARY

WASl~llNGTC)N ii LEE UNIVERSITY’

III

ll.EX¢'N('iTON. VA 

WAsHINGToN AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

“i”l"ilﬂl1i

VOLUME 102, No.17

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, JANUARY 17, 2000

KA faces new
IFC violation

Alcohol at Rush date results

in new probation for fraternity
By Max Smith

News EDITOR

Kappa Alpha is on social probation after an Inter-Fra-
temity Council patrol saw three people drinking beer in the
fraternity house during an official Rush date on Thursday
night.

IFC president Chris Brown said the patrol spotted the
offense around 7 p.m., but Brown could not confmn who
was drinking. Any alcohol in the house during Rush is a
violation of Rush policy.

The IFC met with KA on Friday night in what Brown
called “an open and shut case.” KA agreed to the stan-
dard punishment of two weeks of social probation and a
$2,000 fine. Brown said Thursday night’s violation was
KA's first IFC offense since their return from a one-year
suspension due to hazing violations.

Several KAs refused to comment and chapter President
Evan Beale could not be reached for comment.

Both Dean of Students David Howison and Associate
Dean of Students Leroy “Buddy” Atkins said KA’s viola-
tion won’t change administrative oversight after their re-
turn from suspension.

“KA was reinstated in good standing and the IF C is in
charge of any problems,” Dean Howison said.

Brown and Atkins said KA’s national chapter may en-
force a stricter punishment than the lFC’s.

Brown said KA isn’t allowed to have parties for the
next two weeks, on- or off-campus. He said they could
have a Tear Night for their pledges on Saturday, but no
party afterwards.

The standard punishment for a party during social pro-
bation is a $2,500 fine and a probation extension through
the end of the term.

 

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

“HUDDLE UP, GUYS”: Brothers of Kappa Alpha crowd together during their Tear Night celebration.

GHQ opens with Java

Cafe will give students a non-alcoholic
alternative to Wednesday night parties

p me by Eil Bames/Photo ditor

RACK’EM UI>!: Chi Psi brothers and pledges enjoy game of pool during one of the Rush dates.

Rushing to join the Greek scene

 

Almost 200 freshmen accept bids from fraternities on Tear night

By Michael Crittenden

Assocm TE EDITOR

Formal Rush came and went this
last week, and for Washington and
Lee’s freshmen males, the joy and
pains ofjoining a fraternity will fi-
nally be realized. As of Sunday
night, the houses with the most
pledges appear to be Fiji and KA.
According to Fiji Rush chair An-
drew Simmons, Rush was a pleas-
ant surprise this year.

“We got a really outstanding

group of guys who will bring a lot’

to the house,” Simmons said. “They
are really good, and in eight weeks
they will be even better.”

Dean of Students David
Howison was even more excited
when the dust settled this week and
pledge numbers rolled in.

“These are the best numbers and
the most even distribution ofpledges
in the 10 years that l’ve been here,”
Howison said. “Our goal is to have
each fraternity get strong and stable
numbers each year.”

Formal Rush for men began on
Tuesday night, when freshmen at-
tended one or two Rush dates at
fraternity houses. This schedule
was repeated on Wednesday, and
then each rushee had the opportu-
nity to accept two bids on Thurs-

day. Men had until Saturday to de-
cide on which house to pledge.
According to freshman Nate
Johnson, the Rush process was
surprisingly stressful.

“It really surprised me. The process
is too political and there is too much
dirty rushing and it was very stress-
ful,” Johnson said. “It is miserable.”

Dirty rushing refers to a
fratemity’s slander of another frater-
nity in front ofa freshman male.

Freshmen Rush dates were deter-
mined by a process that combined
fraternity and freshmen preference

cards that were filled out before
Christmas Break. Each freshman that
chose to rush was given a card with
the name of all ofthe fraternities on
it. Freshmen were told to put the fra-
ternities in the order of their prefer-
ence. At the same time, each frater-
nity submitted a preference list of all
the freshmen. The IFC then com-
bined the two lists and came up with
a list of Rush dates for each fresh-
man. Each date consisted of either
dinner or dessert, and was held at
each fraternity house.
Just over 200 men rushed.

Fiji.............16
KappaSigma.....16
SigmaChi.......15
, LamdaChi.......15
SAE............14
PiKA...........14
PhiKap.........13

ME1\—I:S_ RUSH 2000 T

The ﬁnal numbers

I Total.........198

SPE.............13
Beta.............13
PiPhi............11
PhiDelt..........11
ChiPsi...........11|
SigmaNu.........9
PhiPsi...........9

By Max Smith

News EDITOR

Looking to fill the void left when
the Ruse closed in October, a new Uni-
versity-sponsored coffee shop will
open this Wednesday in the GHQ.

“We want to provide an alternative
for students to take a break that
doesn’t involve a party where alcohol
is served,” said Dr. Jane Horton, Di-
rector of Health Services.

Funded through a $3,500 grant
from the Virginia Alcoholic Beverage
Control Board and matched by the
Student Activities Office, the coffee
shop, called “Java at the GHQ,” will
feature free coffee and a variety of
entertainment options. It will be open
every Wednesday from 8:30 p.m. to
1:00 a.m.

Senior Josh Harvey will provide en-
tertainment opening night, and Burr
Datz will follow next week. Future en-
tertainment options range from karaoke
to comedians to poetry readings.

Horton said she wants campus
groups to.sponsor nights by provid-
ing their own entertainment. For ex-
ample, the Outing Club will present
slides and food from India and Nepal
on Feb. 2 and South America on Mar.
8. Horton hopes less-organized groups

like dorm halls will sponsor nights by
playing some of their favorite CD5.

“It’s important for student groups
to plan and meet their interests
through programs that can be held at
the coffee shop,” Horton said.

With few alcohol-free gathering
places available on or off-campus,
Horton hopes the coffee shop will pro-
vide students with an alcohol-free en-
vironment to relax and have fun.

“Java at the GHQ” is also an experi-
ment to gauge student response to a
coﬂ°ee shop in the University Commons
currently in development. If success-
ful, Horton wants to open a coffee shop
in the Commons using student feedback
to make it a frequent hangout.

Student managers will run the cof-
fee shop. Specialty coffees, other non-
alcoholic beverages and a selection of
deserts from Dining Services will also
be available. Royal Cup Coffee,
chaired by W&L trustee Hatton Smith,
is donating equipment. The program
has agreed to buy their coffee from
Royal Cup.

“I think it’s a great idea because
it’s something that, if students give it
a chance, provides a great opportu-
nity for them to develop a place that
meets their interests,” Horton said. “It
can be somewhere they want to be.”

 

Mock Con
lands Dole

Former majority -
leader will give
keynote address

By Polly Doig

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

Fours years ago, presidential
contender Bob Dole spoke at Wash-
ington and Lee’s Mock Convention
via telephone when he received the
Republican nomination. This year,
however, Dole will attend in person
as the keynote speaker of the event.

 

Bob Dole

Mock Con general chairman Mark
Schweppe expressed his pleasure in
Dole’s conﬁrmation, calling him a,
“well respected individual within the
Republican Party, as well as a great
role model for our generation.”

Dole will be joined by seven other
previously confirmed speakers: Rep.
J .C. Watts, former secretary of edu-
cation Bill Bennett, Oklahoma Gov.
Frank Keating, Republican National
Committee Chairman Jim Nicholson,
Rep. Bob Goodlatte, Mayor of Jer-
sey City Bret Schundler, and former
Sen. Bill Brock.

Dole himself is a three-time presi-
dential candidate, who has served
as Senate majority leader, chairman
of the Republican Party, congress-
man, and is a recipient ofthe Presi-
dential Medal of Freedom. Ronald
Reagan said of Dole, “his title of
Leader is notjust ajob title, it’s de-
scription of the man.”

“With the addition of Bob Dole,
the 2000 Mock Convention can now
claim to have assembled the most
impressive list of speakers in the his-
tory of [the event,” Mock Con’s po-
litical chairman David Dardis said.

Mock Con has successfully pre-
dicted the nomination of the chal-
lenging. party’s candidate for the-
past 16 out of 21 attempts since 1908,
a record which organizers attribute
to the diligent research conducted
by student participants.

“We’re real excited about it be-
cause it’s the only student-run pre-
dictor of the presidential race in the
country,” said public relations chair
Nancy Dixon. “The media portrays
the youth of our country as politi-
cally apathetic, but 90 percent of the
student body is involved.”

For more information on Mock
Con, a website is available at:
http://mockcon.wlu.edu

January 17, 2000

OPINION:

W&L1FE:
Mike’s Pub opens

S1>oRTs:
Dunkin’ D-1 style

LAsT WORD:

@112 Tlting-tum Elﬂhi

Greek system must rid suck factor

Pledgeship: the home game

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

PAGE 5

PAGE 6

TALK To THE HAND: Sophomore
Jessica Mentz in the Guilford game.

photo by Emily Bames/Photo E 

 

 

 

PAGE 2

E1111: ‘ﬂing-tum lﬂht

NEWS

JANUARY 17, 2000

E-mail General Notes to ‘,
F:

l— 

Opening of parking garage delayed

The opening of Washington and Lee University's 609-
vehicle parking garage has been delayed by approximately
a month. The Haskell Co., a design/build ﬁrm from Jack-
sonville, Fla., that is managing the project, requested a
time extension to Feb. 28. The garage was originally sup-
posed to be ready by Feb. 1.

The project was delayed by poor soil conditions that
made construction of some of the foundations more com-
plicated and led to a collapse Of the bank just below the
Warner Center.

Film Society to show “After Life”

The Washington and Lee Film Society will present the
Japanese drama, “Aﬁer Life”, directed by Kore-eda Hirokazu.

Screenings will be at 7:30 p.m. on Friday and Saturday,
Jan. 20 and 21, in the Troubadour Cinema. As always, there
is no charge for admission, although contributions are wel-
come. This ﬁlm is in Jananese. with English .Qlll'\fi1'ln=c

More a meditation on the value of memory than a specu-
lation on the hereafter, After Life ponders this possibility:
when you die, you are allowed to choose one fond memory
of life to retain eternally. Heaven, in this gentle ﬁlm, is not
the standard Hollywood stuff-no celestial choirs, no special
effects-but a somber and pragmatic working place.

W&L to hold ODK initiation Jan. 19
Twenty-one undergraduate students, eight law students,

and six honorary initiates will be tapped into Omicron Delta

Kappa, the national honorary fraternity, during the

 

 

_ photo courtesy Stephanie Bianca
' SHOWING YOUR TRUE COLORS: A W&L dad shows
his support for his favorite college.

Come and write for

@112 ilting-tum iﬂlii

Join in the fun, laughter, and behind-the-scenes
excitement of W&L’s oldest and most prestigious
newspaper

e-mail us at phi@wlu.edu or call X4060 and leave a message

 

.ooooo-noc-u
uoonotnvovos
.ocaxa.~..n-.

Founders’ Day/ODK Convocation at Washington and Lee
University on Wednesday, Jan. 19 at 11:30 a.m. in Lee
Chapel.

Founders’ Day is celebrated each year on or around
Jan. 19, Robert E. Lee's birthday. After Lee's death, the
board of trustees of Washington College resolved that his
birthday should always be celebrated at the college. Omi-
cron Delta Kappa, the national honorary fraternity founded
at Washington and Lee in 1914, recognizes superior lead-
ership achievements in various aspects of campus life.

This year's honorary initiates are: Andrew N. Baur '66;
Barbara J. Brown: The Rev. Betsy Hague; Reno S. Harp III
'54, '56L; The Hon. Frederick P. Stamp Jr. '56, and Dr. James
K. VanKirk

Hague is the guest speaker and the title of her talk is
“Preparing for Leadership in the 2 1 st Century.” Ordained
by both Episcopal and Lutheran bishops, Hague earned
her degrees from Georgetown University School of Nurs-
ing, the University of Maryland and Wesley Theological
Seminary.

Baur is CEO and chairman of the board of Southwest
Bank of St. Louis. He has served his community as chair of
St. Luke's hospital, as a trustee of St. Louis University and
as a member of the St. Louis Regional Commerce & Growth
Association. as well as a board member of St. Louis Coun-
try Day School, St. Louis Zoo Association, St. Louis
Children's Hospital and Webster College.

A graduate of Iowa State University and Columbia Uni-
versity, Brown has been University librarian at W&L since
1985. She has served on a number of committees for the
American Library Association, the Southeastern Library
Network and the Virginia Library Association.

When Harp retired as chief counsel to the State Judicial
Inquiry and Review Commission in 1997, The Roanoke
Times commented that for over 25 years, Harp had kept
Virginia judges in line. Over the years, Harp has been As-
sistant and Deputy Attorney General of Virginia, and he

has served as a board member of the National Association.

of Prosecutor Training Coordinators and as chair of the
lntemational Association of Game and Fish Commissions‘
Legal Committee.

Stamp serves as chief judge for the United States dis-
trict court for the northern district of West Virginia. From
1966 to 1970 he served in the West Virginia Legislature and
was president of the state's Board of Regents.

A cum laude graduate of Duke University and recipient
of the University of Virginia School of Medicine's Out-
standing Preceptor award, VanKirk was recently elected a
fellow in the American College of Physicians.

Student initiates into ODK:

Senior Class of 2000: David Scott Hanson, Elizabeth
Anne Harvey, Lezael Andrea Haynes, Mary Kirnbrell Hight,
Stephen Day Hopkins, William Alexander Kanner, Jill Eliza-
beth Kosch, David Seth Levinson, David Jason Miller, Gre-
gory Legare Pleasants, Nancy LeAn_ne Reinhart, Charles
Straub, Khanh Dong Nhat Vo, MaryHElizabeth Whipple,

0 Mary Elizabeth Winfrey, Christine Kaming Wong.

Junior Class of 2001 : Daniel Moffett Birdwhistell, Jef-
frey Kenneth Cook, Jordan Samuel Ginsberg, Anne
Cummins Hazlett, Lauren Elizabeth LaFauci.

Law Class of 2000: Matthew Kiel Mahoney, Devon
James Munro, Michael Peter Frederick Phelps, Jonathan
Duncan Pitchford, Danielle Laura Smith.

Law Class of 2001 2 Alice Dorothy Decker, Henry Malloy
Evans III, Heidi Amber Reamer.

Summer Scholar-ships available

A grant from the William Randolph Hearst Foundation
will ﬁind approximately eight minority tuition scholarships
annually for Washington and Lee University's Summer
Scholars program. Additionally, two of those scholarships
will be designated for minority students residing in
Rockbridge County.

The grant was for $125,000 and increases the Summer
Scholars Hearst Fund to a total of $200,000.

W&L’s Summer Scholars program annually brings to- i

gether approximately 150 rising high school seniors. They
attend classes taught by W&L professors, live in dorms,
use the school’s facilities and attend social functions.

For more information on the Summer Scholars program,
contact W&L’s ofﬁce of special programs at 463-8723.

TALK IS CHEAP
Metro CallTM Phone Card

2.9¢/minute

674 minutes of U.S. calling

FOR ONLY $20
39¢ connect charge on each call

GREAT INTERNATIONAL RATES!

Canada '— 3¢
Germany — 4¢

Jamaica —— 28¢
England — 3¢

*Connect charges vary from 50¢ to
$2.00 per international call

ORDER BY PHONE
A   (540) 463-1106

© 1999 VarsityBooks.com Inc.

We realize we don't have to waste your time explaining the virtues ol the Internet. Let's just say that at VarsityBool<s.com we've made the most at it.

Not only can you save up to 40% on your textbooks, but you'll also receive them in just one to three business clays.

All on a Web site that's completely reliable and secure. What more do you need to know?

Savings oft distributor's suggested price. Books delivered in no more than three business days. Some restrictions apply, see site for details

SAVE UP TO 40% ON TEXTBOOKS.

  VarsityBooks.cOm

 

I

I

I

JANUARY17,2000

O Pii\¢“‘ibN

PAGE3

More brawls,
less suckj obs

Not that I’m a bitter man, but I do have a few complaints
about what has happened to this school and its Greek sys-
tem. How is it possible for a house who plasters the cam-
pus with VarsityBooks.com posters to wrangle together
such a large number of suckjob pledges? It would appear
that our admissions process is in dire need of revamping.
What is happening to our once homogeneous khakied sport
utility campus? I am severely disappointed with the state
of our union
when every
freshman in a
room throws
up after only
55 gallons of
punch. Pledges also are apparently growing more stupid
as the years progress. When it takes ﬁfteen tries for fresh-
men to learn a simple vulgarized version of the school ﬁght
song we might need to consider raising the SAT score
requirements.

I am growing disheartened with our school and its pa-
thetic standards of inebriation. If this trend continues we
will be precariously close to losing our Princeton Review
alcohol rankings. And what happened to good old frater-
nity wars? Has inter-house animosity truly been quelled or
are the fraternities too lackadaisical to wing an occasional
beer can at a neighbor? Come on fellas, shake up some
Natty and let it ﬂy.

I am not going to limit my ranting to men alone. I issue a
call to the sororities to not forget there are more than three
fraternities on campus. I’m tired of never seeing my friends
who are pledging sororities because suddenly I’m not on
the acceptable list. And please girls, enough with the sorry
on-campus strippers. Have you not seen enough pathetic
examples of fraternity nudity‘? But if you are so inclined,
there are other houses which will willingly disrobe for you.
I think that there should be an equal opportunity system in
which all fraternities (well, almost all of them) should be
allowed to display their ﬁnely-honed mixing skills. And
those of you Greek women with boyfriends, remember that
you could stop by and see your beaus on weekends dur-
ing your mixer rounds.

The Greek system at W&L has degenerated to being
more of an annoyance than something enjoyable. Our school
needs to rejuvenate itself. We need a new fraternity renais-
sance where houses engage in all night drunken brawls
only to sit next to each other in European history class the
next morning nursing mutual wounds. Sororities need to
retrace their steps. back to the days when they weren’t too
good for anyone. We all need to arrange an all-house mixer/
rage at Zollmans to reestablish contact and ﬁre up old ani-
mosities. So again, I urge you, pump some of the old life
and spirit into the fraternity and sorority system and we’ll
all be the better for it (excluding the damage bills).

 

Enemy of God
Taylor Ruilova ’0O

 

 

 

They got how many pledges?

—— Anonymous frat guys

(lire ilttng-tum iﬁlrt

Executive Editor Polly Doig
Associate Editor Michael Crittenden
News Editor Max Smith

Opinions Editor
W&Life Editor
Sports Editor
Last Word Editor
Copy Editor
Photo Editor

Stephanie Bianco
Elianna Marziani
Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin
Heather McDonald
Emily Barnes

Assistant Photo Editor Lisa Lin
Dave Hanson
Layout Editor Neal Willetts

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wlu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

  

?

   

7 .4
1,4 .»
V1’

9:

0
‘to
T

Ahh. . . the memories of Tear night

Along with the rest of the school, waking up this
morning was not the easiest thing I have ever done. In
fact, it was a disaster. Something akin to running into a
large, mean bear with claws and in a bad mood. Not
that I know how you could tell if a bear has a mean
streak, but since I am just using it to make a point we
can work with it.

As I wash the beer from my body, slowly regain my
voice and wipe this last weekend

the Miami-Jacksonville football game, which I hesitate to
call a game because that was easily the worst showing of
a team in world history. Miami played like a bunch of nancy-
boys. Even a group of wasted, and I put a large emphasis
on wasted, sorority girls in black pants and tight sweaters
could have put up a better ﬁght and it would have been a
lot more fun to watch.

Now I will be having fun getting to know the new fresh-
men I am going to have to live with

from my consciousness, memories of
Tear Night debauchery slowly start ,;

to drift back into the realm of coher-  Michael Crittenden ’01

I““'»v. dash
. S t3Bad<p0rd1Balder

over the next year and a half. As bond-
ing experiences go, a chance like Tear
Night only comes along once a year.
The camaraderie, the boyish exuber-

ent thought. Scary images of 60 adult
males chanting, ripping their shirts,
covered in beer, and listening to loud heavy metal. If
our parents could see us I am sure they would be proud.
Of course for them to recognize us, we’d ﬁrst have to
remove the bits of former t-shirts and caked beer from
our eyes.

After a week of the back-stabbing political shenani-
gans that make up men’s Rush, however, a little release is
needed. Of course the only other thing of interest on was

ance, and energy, the 18 billion gal- T

lons of beer being poured on me as 40 guys rip the shirt off
my back like vultures on a carcass.

I wouldn’t give it up for the world though, because after
you graduate the only thing you have is a piece of paper
with your degree on it and the friendships you’ve made.
The former might help you get ajob, but the latter is what
is really important. Not that it excuses the bacchanal we
call Tear Night, but hey, it’s good enough for me.

An independent freshman ’s perspective on W&L ’s Greek system

With men’s and women’s rush behind us, we can now
say goodbye to yet another Tear Night, chanting Kappa’s
at 8:30 m the morning (for which you will pay), and Pi Beta
Phi written all over the campus in chalk. How-
ever, as the 146 women and 200 men who re-
ceived bids go off and begin their pledgeship 5»
activities, those of us who are independent can
sit back, relax and laugh.

What makes someone stay independent at
a school where Greek life is as important as
food, water and shelter? The label attached to us should
explain it all. We are independent.

Webster deﬁnes independent as, “not inﬂuenced by
the thought or action of others; not inﬂuenced or con-
trolled by others in matters of opinion, conduct, think-
ing or acting for oneself.” That hits the nail right on the
head. Just because we are independent do not .think

  

A 4'9-4

 View

’ Neal Willetrs ’05

that we are a bunch of boring, do-nothing tools, who
spend all our time studying and being “good” students.

Independents do go and party, many just as often as
those in fratemities or sororities
do. Many people see the Greek
system as a good opportunity to
be able to meet other people that
you may not nonnally run across.
Some people, however, feel that
once they belong, they are
stopped from associating with other people depending on
where they ended up accepting a bid. According to one
freshman girl, “I did not want to feel socially restricted.”

Out ofa freshman class of approximately 470, 346
pledged, leaving about 120 independent students, or about
one quarter of the class.

Freshman Susan Woodward said that her reasons for

Tear night: No
“Animal House”

“A lot of people end up in the hospital.”

“Take everything off your doors; newly frat-enized
drunk freshmen will tear it down.”

“Wear your worst clothing; everything will end up cov-
ered in beer by the end of the night.”

For me, the notorious Tear Night was the equivalent of
Y2K: a lot of fear inducing threats only to be dispelled by
a typical evening of garden variety debauchery.

I had sported my three for $1 Fruit of the Loom tee shirt,
jeans that looked like they would complement a smock,

and sneakers

  Northeners Exposme that “ad 4°‘
 _ _ cidedly seen
"  ‘ K115 P01111121 03 better days.
I" ' By the end of

the night, I looked exactly the same. But obviously, I am
speaking for a minority.

At Pi Phi, I witnessed my best friend fall victim to a
waterfall of beer while her sorority big sister had her chant
her respective sorority chant while on her knees. I didn’t
have the opportunity to view the long, hard path to intoxi-
cation the upperclassmen thrust upon their new pledges,
but I had the pleasure and entertainment of watching the
end product. It was fairly easy to discern the pledges from
the upperclassmen, simply by virtue of half-open, red eyes;
heads frequently plunged into garbage cans; and other
symptoms of life-long liver damage.

I might not have gotten the essence of Tear Night to its
fullest merely because of my gender. I had, regrettably,
missed the freshmen reactions to the strippers each frater-
nity had hired, and I did not get to observe how exactly the
freshmen had reached such an inordinate state of inebria-
tion by the time I arrived.

Though I didn’t truly get the full effect of Tear Night, I
saw the repercussions the next morning. The entire frat
house reeked of vomit, beer, and just an overall acerbic
scent. The ﬂoors were covered in Domino’s boxes, cold
pizza, unidentiﬁed liquids, and assorted articles of cloth-
ing. The walls were sprinkled with holes and promises of
ﬁnes.

I did not lose any articles of clothing throughout the
course of the evening, maybe a few brain cells, at most.
But I get angry when my hair falls out of my rubber band,
so my lack of Tear Night experience could be a result of my
evasion of the line of ﬁre. But as I said, it seemed to be a
Y2K scenario; I had been warned since September of the
detriments of Tear Night, had learned to fear the very name,
had learned to build this weekend up to be the be-all, end-
all of college parties. It was, no doubt, a bombardment of
alcohol induced, “fratastic” wholesome fun, house after
house of crazed students neglecting the threat of the hang-
over of the century, forgetting about the subsequent week
of classes, not to mention the eight lingering weeks of
pledgeship.

Though I may have missed out on the beer matted hair
aspect of the evening, the promised hospital trips, and
havoc that I been anticipating all semester, I did relish the
refreshing, yet somewhat twisted, omnipresent sense of
buoyancy and vivacity that tore up the rows of fraternity

houses. Almost everyone seemed immune to the fact that I

tomorrow meant a day of hungover homework attempts,
and even worse, that Monday meant the onset of a two
month microcosm of Hell. Only in college. Only in college
can the theme of carpe diem be manifested in beer soaked
clothing and freshmen guy strippers.

2; Going Greek is not the only choice available

not pledging were, “partly ﬁnancial and partly because most
of my friends stayed independent. People not Greek have
their own ‘fra-ority’ and we have each other.”

Those staying independent can easily spend their time
with anyone they wish, leaving themselves open and less
committed to anything in particular. Joining a fraternity is a
huge ﬁnancial responsibility, and for many women, the
sororities are too expensive as well. Many people are just
simply unwilling to come away from college with their only
debt being for the equivalent of a social club. Others are
turned off by rumors and stories that they hear about
pledgeship activities.

Others, whose reasons are not as simple as ﬁnancial or
wanting to stay with their independent friends, have a more
critical attitude.

“Independence is a virtue, and Greek life is not a place

. of virtues,” in the words of one freshman.

TALKback... What’.s your best Tear Night memory?

 

“Tear night sucked.”
-Katherine Hill ’03

 

“I enjoyed the punch a little
too much.”

“Completely bizarre.”

-Taylor Ruilova ’00

 

—Laura Leigh Birdwell ’03

 

 

“Putting a motorcycle helmet on my
head so I wouldn’t hurt myself.”
-Davis White ’03

 

 

Elli: iﬁing-tum lﬂlii

W& IFE 

Civil War and Civil Rights join mikfa lguh .

Virginia’s Lee-Jackson-King Day honors strange mix of heroes MOLSON ICE: Canada’s better export

PAGE 4

 

celebration day in 1984. Then
Virginia State Sen. L. Douglas
Wilder had been ﬁghting for
years for a holiday in recogni-
tion of King’s birthday, and he
was ﬁnally successful in 1984.
He wanted King’s life cel-
ebrated on his birthday, Jan.
15. Lee and Jackson already
had Jan. 19th, Lee’s birthday,
set aside for their celebration.
Ironically, new state legislation
was passed, mandating that all
state holidays be celebrated on
the Monday to which they fell

different men ended up with the
same commemorative holiday.
“They got lumped together,
this day, Lee-Jackson-King,” Wilder said
in a telephone interview with the Wash-
ington Post “It shouldn’t be that way.”
’ The odd state legislative process
left Virginians with one very unique

'I ' grap IC C011 85)’ 0 www.ne guie.com, ee courtesy

el°5e5i- Thus’ the three Very Civil Rights leader Martin Luther King, Jr., Confederate General Robert E. Lee,
and Confederate General “Stonewall” Jackson share a joint state holiday today.

the home of two of these men.
Robert E. Lee was born Jan. 19,
1807. He was a West Point Military
Academy graduate, from which he is
famous for graduating without a single

By Eliarma Marziani
F EA TURES EDITOR

In the so often seemingly
materialistic and selfish
world, one W&L student’s

Meet Kelly Stewart, a se-
nior English major. Stewart,
a member of the Kappa Delta
sorority and former Rho Chi,
serves as the Head Dorm
Counselor, has worked ex-
tensively with the Shepherd
Poverty Program, and serves
as a volunteer advocate for
Project Horizon in her “spare
time.”

Not easily burned out, Stewart
plans on continuing this life of
giving aﬁer graduation, hoping to
work for Americorps or the like.

While working in the Shepherd
Poverty Program, Stewart also
spent one of her summers volun-
teering in N Street Village, a large
nonproﬁt agency in Washington,
D.C., organized to help homeless
women. She wrote an extensive
class research paper on the prob-
lem of absent fathers especially in
low-income families, how that af-
fects children, and how to get fa-
thers interested in their families
again.

Stewart is a “people person”
and enjoys interacting with mem-
bers of the W&L and Lexington
communites.

Q: Do you know what you are
doing next year?

A: <laugh> “No, I don’t. I

more than anything, but it ended

i Signature Student
.7(e[[y CS/ewazf ‘00

up being a great choice”
Q: What was your biggest
surprise here?

Photo courtesy of the Calyx

A: “It was really amazing be-
ing around such intelligent
people all the time. . . All the
people here are so interesting.
They’re smart but also so in-
volved, have so much leader-
ship.”

Q: When you were little, what
did you want to be when you
grew up?

A: “It varied about once a
month, but just the usual things:
a lawyer, a doctor...” <she added
that her dream of becoming a doc-
tor ended when she realized she
got sick at the sight of blood>

Q: What was your worst Hal-
loween costume?

tic costumes from the store, with
a mask. Mom handmade this
beautiful clown costume, but I
had wanted to be something
pretty. Instead I had to wear this
awful red nose and wig.”

Q: What was your favorite TV

Anyone else notice a trend?

    
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  

p: xroas.virginia.e ~ -I‘

abolitionist John Brown’s raid on
Harper’s Ferry. Although he was anti-
slavery and anti—secession and had
been offered command of the Union
Army, Lee accepted command in the
south because he could not bear to
ﬁght his home state of Virginia. After
the Civil War, Lee acceptedthe posi-
tion of President of Washington Col-
lege. He was hesitant because he did
not want the stigma of his name to
harm the school; he need not have
worried. He broadened the liberal arts
curriculum to include pre-professional
programs such as engineering, jour-
nalism, and business. He broadened
the geographical scope of the student
body and created the Law School.
Most importantly to the school, he be-

Thomas “Stonewall” Jackson was
born Jan. 21, 1824. Like Lee, he was a
West Point graduate and fought in
Mexico. After the war, Jackson came
to Lexington to serve as a professor
of Natural and Experimental Philoso-
phy (Physics) as well as an instructor

write for the $111’

Like writing? Want to be read

by the entire W&L campus?

If so, we want YOU to write

for the Phi. Call x4060 or come
to any Tuesday night meeting at
7:00 in the Phi office.

Subscribe!

News, sports,
campus life, student

Keep up with all the
events at Washington
and Lee by subscribing
to the Ring—tum Phi,

Lexington, VA 24450

/lee.html, Jackson courtesy www.vmi.edu

 

attended Morehouse
College, and managed
to secure a Ph.D by
  1955. In 1948 he was
 ordained and became
7 the Associate Pastor of
Ebenezer Baptist
church in Atlanta, Ga.
He was elected presi-
dent of the Montgom-
ery Improvement Asso-
ciation, the group that
coordinated the Mont-
gomery Bus Boycott.
He was a famous civil
rights leader, arrested
thirty despite his non-
violent forrns of pro-
test. He is most famous
for his 1963 “I Have a Dream” speech,
delivered at the Lincoln Memorial in
Washington, D.C. during the March on
Washington for Jobs and Freedom. He
was Time Magazine’s Man of the Year
for 1963 and becarrie the youngest man
to be awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in
l964,atthe age of35.Thisbii1liantman’s
life ended at the hand of assassin James
Earl Ray on April 4, 1968. He is now a
candidate to be proclaimed a martyr by
the Roman Catholic Church.

Such are the three men celebrated
on this extraordinary and rather pecu-
liar Virginia holiday. As of yet, few if
any celebrate all three men in one event.

Some feel the men’s lives are too
different to share a single holiday.
Wilder is pushing for a segregated

example gives hope that car_ queathedhis sense ofhonor, character and holiday. “I invite the Sons of the Con-
ing and generosity are not Christian virtue to his students, ‘a legacy federate Veterans and the Daughters
entirely obsolete. that the school hopes to maintain today. of the Confederacy, and anyone else

who wants to join with me, to push to
have separate holidays,” he said.

Others believe that the men are all
educators and heroes and can be cel-
ebrated jointly. Most agree, though,
that the three incredible men make for
one wacky holiday.

C P : 9§4oa‘.m.-io:2s_
D 10:30a.in.,-j1i1:1:5 a.m.7

  
 

11:30 a.m. ,Fouiiders‘ Day/0

greater punch than our weaker
American beer. Buying a twelve-
pack at your local beer-supply
store should be enough to get

you through a night.

Though Mo-dog virgins may

By Eliarma Marziani ll°llda)’- While the Test Of the nation demerit. After graduation he became inartillery tactics forthe Virginia Mili- By Michael Crittenden he iiiihed °ff by ihe ihiiiai swig I
T Fg,47uR5sED1roR Ulalllly Only - an engi- tary Institute. Jackson was also ad- ASSOCIATEEDITOR ‘if Mhisohi which comes
Celebrates neer, until mired for his character, devotedness ihmhgh wiih a iaii’ Skiihky
what do Robert E_ Lee, Thomas today as he was to Chiisiianiiyiiesnonsihilityi and de_ Though this beer isn’t really taste, any veteraniknows thatithe
“stonewall” Jackson, and Martin M a r t 1 11 called to ienninaiion_ He lived on Washington up to the level ofthe beers I hope unique taste ofiimported, ice-
Luther King, Jr. have in common? Lu1herKing, serve in sheet dining his tenure at VMl_ in to explore in the future of this brewed je ne sals quot is some-
Seemingly nothing. And yet in Vir- Jr.Day,Vir- the Mexi- 1351’ with the start ofthe Civil wan column, 1 ﬁgured I would start thing you love to come home to.
~ 8llll3> and 0lllY lll Vllgllllaa all llllee gllllallsa and can War Jackson led VMI cadets to the con- With ‘me Of ihe beers i fiisi Though paie ahd h°i wiihohi
men’s lives are celebrated on the same especially ﬁom1346. federate ranks, where he accepted a Started drinking. generous head. (Yes, You Call
Cl.d)’?l-ee'l3°l<5°ll'l(lllg D3)“ leellgfliiiﬁ 1848. In commission as Colonel. He served lmported from Canada, nudge Your fllelld and lellgll
Lee-JackSon-King dayithe hohday haveadjﬁer. i359, he fromtheBatt1e0fl\/lanassasin1861“) Molson Ice’s distinctive green about that one) Molson Ice’s
celebrating two Civil War generals and ent focus. 5 u p — Chancellorsville in 1863,where he re- bottle and black label ls "Oi T0 ‘ll5lllleilVe"e55 l5 in lls abllllyilo
algoth century civil rights leader, joins Lexjng- p i e s s e d eeived a fatal wound, He is new hin_ be confused with that yuppie- be consumed rapidly and with
ranks with holidays such as Memorial ton was r a d i c a l ied in the Lexington Stonewall Jack- America“ Pig'5Wiil khewh as maximum effech Thiihgh 3 iah
lgayilsahoilgayicolinnhusdayi son Ceinetei—y_ Rolling Rock. 1 don’t think there over-carbonated, what can you
and Independence Dayinbeing Martin Luther King, ls 3 more Past)’ Wlllle'AmeTlCall doa eh? _
ieeognizedasone ofonly ll of_ _]l-_ was born on jan_ l5, beer around. I would also like to take this
l-icialsiaieholidayinfallsonnie  l929, more than a een_ But back to my favorite beer time to suggest people try
third Monday in January. 0 '1. tary aﬁer Lee and Jack- from our neighbors the Canadi- Molson’s other lines of beer, in-
. These three unlikely hoh-  s()n_I-Iewas very bright’ ans. With an alcohol content of cluding Molson Golden and
day-mates gained their joint I skipped several grades, 5-5 Peleelll» M°'d0g5 Cally 3 Molson EXPO”: Wlllell You can

only get up north in Canada or
New England, but that packs a
punch in the 7-12 percent range
for alcohol content. All in all, I
have to give Molson three
“eh’s” and a “hoser.” Cheers.

Plihotoiby Hollister oveyl Staff Photographer

Senior clarinetist Haley Hall takes a bow at the Univer-
sity Shenandoah Symphony Orchestra concert Saturday
night in the Lenfest Center. Shuko Watanabe joined the
orchestra as a guest artist, playing the piano.

   

' i7p.m.

7:30 p.m.

Currently she helps out with A: “I hated this awful clown Opinions, hUlllOr, i 10:00 P'hi' Uh°i°iMihg°? Psi‘ ‘ ,
Project Horizon, the organization costume that my mom made for - 7    ' P ‘ * P ” i ’
responsible for helping victims of me. Now Ithink it’s very Cool, but Special events and_ Annayi  V izznmn  so-l-uludayl Jan.  -. 2 i i i
domestic violence. I wanted one of those cheap plas— SO much more  i U . — ’ » 1039 am_ . wl-esgliing, Wi&I;i1nyitaitibnal:

   

 ‘E   A —

Friday, Jun. 21 .

1:30 p.m. P

 
  
 
  

Woodrow Wilson Visitin_g’Fel1ow
Lecture. “Maintaining o‘infBalance

‘ 19:1: Centi‘u'y.Civi'cs in a 21stCen- _;f ,
 World,” Tanya Me1ich,~presi- »
. dent ofPolil:ical Issues 

a political management and public

0 policy consulting ﬁrm, New York
" City. Northeri Auditorium.‘ "

 

Film Society.ii“AﬁerLife,”:(Japi  "
1999), directedby Kore-eida
I-lirokazu’. Troubadour 

Warner Center. (Schools participat-
ing areCurnberland, Davidson,. 9 ’

« Gallaudet, Longwood, Pensacola .

Christian, University of Scranton,

7 sWashington&JeffeisonandW&iL.) i

Opera Broadcast. “Cavalleria '
lniigln Work at a nonproﬁt Ztiengy Show gigging UP‘? h h h if W&L’s ofﬁcial student Rusticana” by Mascagniand . 
i e Americorps or possi y o A: “ eers, event oug a . ~ '79 9 ‘ ._ » . _* 
some consulting and advertising.” the time my parents wouldn’t let n€WSpaper. Send yOLlI'  byLe0ncavan°5“__iLU,R .773
Q: Why didyou come to W&L? me watch it. Ithink I had a crush name’ address and  n — 0 i .i   0 L
A: <another laugh> “I guess I on Woody. And, of course he 7:30 pim i 0-Film Socizetyna
just wanted to get out ofMissouri, sang the ‘Kelly’ song, so that tO2 i999)  Koreﬁda , V ’ 
ﬁrst and foremost. Then there’s didn’t help matters!” The Ring-tum Phi l.liml(;izn_ Tinnhadoni. Cinema A
the small class size and the beau- Q: What is your favorite color? University Center Room 208 » e i 0 i .
tiful area it’s in. It was kind of luck A: “Kelly green.” Washington & Lee University 10:00 n_m. Breakfast club’ Chiepsiigj   i

 

  

 
  
     
     
  
  

  

    

 

JANUARY 17, 2000

 

 in“ s

  

DOWN TO THE WIRE: Coach Lafave and the Generals regroup during Wednesday’s OT win over LC.

Road weary swim teams face
national stand-out Johns Hopkins

Washington and Lee traveled to
national-power Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity on Sunday for its third dual
swim meet in as many days. The Blue
Jays claimed a 169-104 victory in the
men's meet, while their women's team
defeated the Generals by a score of
182-83.

The W&L men's team (7-4) had
three individual winners in the loss to
Hopkins. Junior Colin Hayes emerged
victorious in the 200 yard butterﬂy, in
a time of 2:01.07. Freshman Patrick
Frankfort claimed a win in the 500 yard
freestyle (4:57.66), while senior Ken
Ervin won the 50 yard freestyle (22.49).

On the women's side, W&L (8-4)
had only one individual race winner.
Sophomore Katie Kennedy won her
sixth and seventh races of the week-
end, claiming victories in the 200 yard
breaststroke (2133.16), and the 100 yard
breaststroke (1 : 10.73). W&L also won
the200 yard ﬁeesityéle-relay‘—irr a time of
1:46.22. '*‘**"*

Saturdasy, the Generals traveled
to Catholic University and came
away empty-handed, as the men's

team lost to the Cardinals by a score
of 115-89, while the women's team
lost 119-86.

The W&L men's team) was paced
by Frankfort who claimed two indi-
vidual victories. Frankfort swam his
way to victories in the 500 yard
freestyle and the 200 yard freestyle.
W&L also had two other swimmers
who won individual events. Hayes
emerged victorious in the 200 yard but-
terﬂy, while junior Rob Little won the
200 yard backstoke.

On the women's side, W&L had
only one individual race winner.
Kennedy carried the team single-
handedly, winning three races on
the day. Kennedy swam her way to
victories in the 200 breaststroke,
the 500 freestyle, and the 100
freestyle.

W&L hosted Buffalo State College
in a dual swim meet at home on Friday
aﬁemoon. The Generals-claimed a- 1 19-
63 victory in the men's competition,
while the W&L women's squad rolled
to a 113-71 victory.

For the women's squad, Kennedy

led the way with two individual wins.
Kennedy placed ﬁrst in the 200 yard
IM (2: 17.38) and the100 yard breast-
stroke (1 : 10.68). Also claiming indi-
vidual victories for W&L were senior
Lauren Beckenhauer in the 100 yard
backstroke (1105.29), and freshman
Blair Huffman in the 100 yard butterﬂy
(1204.77).

On the men's side, the Generals
were paced by Hayes, who claimed
three victories. Hayes emerged vic-
torious in the 200 yard IM (2203.35),
the 100 yard butterﬂy (55.99), and
the 100 yard breaststroke (1204.05).

_Senior Ken Ervin claimed both the

50 yard freestyle (22.68) and the 100
yard freestyle (50.52). Other winners
for the Generals were freshmen Zach
Fake in the 200 yard freestyle
(1252.62) and Frankfort in the 500
yard freesty1e(4:58.55). The Bengals
claimed only one victory on the day.
 ’W&L ﬁnally gets a much needed
rest, as it will not compete until Janu-
ary 23, when it travels to Sewanee for
a 1:00 pm meet.
—C0urtesy Sports Information

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

  B-ball cools off Two stumbles

By Mike Weil

STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee Generals’ men’s basketball team
started their week the same way they (ended the last with a
win. However, two straight league losses on the road fol-
lowed leaving the Generals with a losing ODAC record and a
need for regrouping.

The week started with the Generals’ most thrilling victory in
recent memory, a 96-92 quadruple overtime victory against
Lynchburg. Senior Brian Ricketts amassed career-highs in
points, rebounds, and blocks, with 27, 21, and six respectively.
Freshman Toussaint Crawford totaled 27 points on 12-18 shoot-
ing including a thundering dunk that was possibly the most
exciting spectacle in the history of the Warner Center.

The Generals continued their road woes on Saturday in
an 80-64 pounding at Randolph-Macon. The Generals sirn—
ply could not shoot in this game, going 3-23 irom behind the
arc and shooting just 28.6 percent ﬁ'om the ﬂoor. Ricketts
continued his dominant play, however, netting 20 points and
pulling down 10 boards. Will Ballard aided the Generals’ los-
ing cause with 14 points, and senior Scott Hudson added 10
points to go along with 7 rebounds.

W&L again failed to win on the road Sunday in a 76-69
loss to ODAC foe Virginia Wesleyan. Ricketts again was the
man for the Generals, tallying 15 points, while Crawford added
14 and fellow freshman Will Cotter netted 12. The Generals’
loss was their 6th consecutive on the road meaning they
have yet to win away from Lexington the entire season.

“We’ve had problems right from the tap and we’re getting
behind early. The coaches are doing everything right. We were
hoping to come out of this weekend with two wins, but even a
split would have been considered a successful trip,” said Cotter.

The Generals beat Virginia Wesleyan earlier in the season
at the Warner Center, but have yet to play Randolph-Macon
at home. “It will be a totally different game,” continued Cot-
ter. “We only shot 28 percent down there, while they shot in
the high 405. Those stats could easily turn around at home.”

W&L, now 5-7 overall and 4-5 in the ODAC, will have to
wait a little longer before returning to the friendly confines of
Lexington. They travel to Emory, Va. Wednesday to face
Emory and Henry, tip-off at 7:00 pm.

PAGE 5 

By Robert Turner :1

STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee’s Women’s Basketball team had
a frustrating week, losing two close ODAC games to
drop their record to 6-5 overall and 4-4 in the confer-
ence. The Generals started their week off in the most
irritating fashion Tuesday, losing to Emory and Henry’
56-54 on a last second 15 footer by the Wasps.

W&L, down 32-27 at the half, used a 13-2 run after
the intermission to take a 40-34 with 14:20 left, but Emory ’
and Henry regained their composure from that point on‘
and fought back to clinch the victory. Interestingly, the‘:
Wasps (4-1 in ODAC competition) did not attempt at
free throw for the entire game, but made up for this?
deﬁciency by 8-15 from beyond the three-point arc.

The Generals were led by senior Ansley Miller’s 171
points, and also received solid contributions from
sophomore Jessica Mentz and senior Jessica Morton,‘
who chipped in 10 points apiece. Mentz also led thei
team with 12 rebounds, but the Generals were unable to
overcome their 24 turnovers. '

W&L attempted to bounce back Saturday in another.
ODAC matchup versus Guilford College, but again came
up a little short. The Generals opened the game on a
terriﬁc 14-2 run, but struggled for the rest of the ﬁrst
half and went into intermission trailing 42-34.

W&L battled back though to knot the score at 75-75’
with 5:26 remaining, but clutch shooting by Guilford
from the free throw line (20-24 for the game) secured?
their victory. Guilford forward Arden Miller hurt the.
Generals the most, scoring a career high 31 points on 7-’
8 three-point shooting. R‘

W&L was again led in scoring by Miller, who tallied-
22 points on a 9-10 effort from the charity stripe. Sopho-'
mores Sarah Schmidt and Mentz also added 15 points
each for the Generals, while their classmate Megan Babst'
recorded her seventh double-double of the year with’

12 points and 12 boards. '-

T'he Generals look to regain their winning form Thurs-
day, January 20 in a game at Randolph Macon Women’s
College. '

W&L takes second at Swarthmore 1

Senior Chad Casto and sophomore
Ezra Morse claimed individual cham-
pionships en route to leading the
Washington and Lee wrestling team
to a second place finish at the
Swarthmore College Invitational over
the weekend in Swarthmore, Pa.

W&L had nine wrestlers compete
in the event. Casto and Morse each
won three consecutive matches to
claim their championships.

Casto claimed the title in the 125-

pound category, while Morse won in
the 197-pound classiﬁcation. Other
wrestlers making strong showings in
their categoriesincluded junior Josh
Chamberlain ﬁnishing third among the
149-pounders, freshman Ericson Davis
ﬁnishing fourth in the 184-pound cat-
egory, and junior John Sensing finish-
ing fourth in the 286-pound classiﬁca-
tion.

In the team scoring, W&L ﬁnished
second to York College, who ran away

from me ﬁeld with 1 1 1 points, includ-
ing three champions and three sec-, .
ond-place finishers. W&L finished in '
second with a total of 43 points, just.
edging out third-place Davidson Col-'
lege, who finished with" 39 points. ,
W&L will return to action on Janu-2
my 22, when it hosts the‘ W&L Invita- 5.
tional in Lexington. The matches aref
set to begin at10:30 a.m. in the Warner 2;
Center. 
——Courtesy Sports Information 3

RESERVE

OFFICERS’

TRAINING

CORPS

mates by attending
Army ROTC Camp

week summer course in

If you didn't sign up for
ROTC as a freshman or
sophomore, you can still
catch up to your class-

'4)
§
Bimini?

ARMY ROTC

Challenge, a paid six-

SIJMMER SCHOOL
FOR PEOPLE
ON THEIR WAY
TO THE TOP.

leadership training. By the
time you graduate from col-
lege, you'll have the creden-
tials of an Army officer.
You'll also have the self-
confidence and disci-
pline it takes to succeed
in college and beyond.

  

TRESMARTESTCOI.I.EGE
COURSEYOUCANTRRE.

Cpt. Chris Whittaker
464-7187

whittal<ercj@vmi.edu

us

14;.-,

 

PAGE 6

Happy Lee/
J ackson/MLK

PLEDGES!-llP.'.'.'® the home game

“All the fun of pledgeship with none of the physical scars”

players: Up to ﬁfteen.
ages: 18-22.

equipment needed: One
die, one Phi, some bottle caps
or beer can tabs for markers.
You may also want a piece of
paper and a pen to keep track

of your number of pledges and
brothers.
object: The ﬁrst player to get
a 60-man‘ house wins.
rules: “We have only one rule
here, and that is that every
man acts like a gentleman.”
real rules: All players start
with thirty brothers. Each
player puts marker on the
“lNlTlATlON/RUSH” square and
one marker on the HAZING-O-
METER® in the center of the
board. Each rolls the die three
times. Add up the number -
that’s the number of pledges
you got during rush.

Decide which player will go
ﬁrst by rolling the dice, arm
wrestling, arguing, etc. Each

player will take turns rolling
the die and moving his piece
that number of spaces.

Follow what it says on the
space. lfyou land on a HAZING
square, pick a HAZING card.
Move your marker on the
HAZING-O-M ETER® accordingly.
If you reach “unbearable" on
the hazing-o-meter, someone
will rat you out and the house
will be closed by the
administration and the entire
house expelled. You may start
again, with 0 brothers.

alternate version:

DRINKING

PLEDGES!-l|P!!!®

the homegame

Grasp this copy of Ring-tum
Phi ﬁrmly in left hand. With
right hand, tear the paper in
half. Crumple it up and throw
it in the garbage. Go to the
Palms and get blitzed.

A . '
O O. . O O
I‘OO" .‘ 0
IO ‘
0'0 ‘ O

‘coo-co‘ 0 0

.LAsT WORD

 

JANUARY 17,2000

cards Cut out these cards for use with PI.£DG£SHlP.'.I.I® the home game.

41, .
“f1’1?.__________.,

| VACUUM CLEANERS I
ISit pledges at table with a bottle of I
IBeam. Tell them that no one can I
|leave their chair until the bottle is I
| finished. When they eventually throw I
| up all over the table, come back with I
|spoons. Tell them that no one can I
|leave until the table is cleaned. |
| hazing +1 |
LZMMMMMMZMMMMIJ

FMMMZZMMMMMMMI1

GOOKIE COOKIE
Stand pledges in a circle with a
cookie in the middle. Have all the
pledges pleasure themselves onto
the cookie. The last one to finish
eats it.
hazing +1

I CRAWL SPACE WITH

I
I THE CHICKEN '
I Real old-schoolestyle hazing from :
I back in the day. Pledges have to |

spend a weekend in the crawl space
I with a chicken. At the end, they have I
to bite the head off the chicken. I
hazing +1 :
-I

LMMMMMMMMMMMM’

Tear Night. Mixer with campus’
Uh oh! 7 pledges loosest sorority!
go to inﬁm1aryl LOSE ONE TURN
GO TO BUDDY’S while

OFFICE, DO NOT “entertaining”
PASS INITIATION. them.

Entire pledge class
arrested during Lex
SWAT team raid on
pledgeclass “drug
night.”

LOSE ALL PLEDGES

The frat across the
street heard screams
coming from your
basement during Hell
Week and turned you
in.

GO TO BUDDY’S
OFFICE, DO NOT
PASS INITIATION.

Pick up two guys who said “I
don't need to join a frat, I've
already got friends” at the
rush dinners but realized
soon after tear night that
nobody on their hall hangs
out with them anymore and
that all their “friends” In
fraternities who were so
nice to them all fall term. . .
they were only rushing.

00

‘$6

/4l%zi14g I
Gzztnlsl :

0
O
V‘
HAZING-O-METER®

SMOKING NIGHT
Pledges are locked in a room with
a box of cigars. They are not
allowed to leave or open a window
until the entire box is smoked.
hazing +1

FMMMMMMMMMMM1

I GET OUT OF BUDDY’S I

OFFICE FREE!
Keep this card. Return the card to
the pile when you use it.

LMMMMMMMMMMMJ

FMMMMMMMMMMM1

I SPACE INVADERS I

I (or “ARKANOID”) |
Pledges move from side to side while I
making bleeping electronic noises.I
Brothers hurl solid objects at them.
The Brothers win when an the
pledges are knocked down. PledgesI
never win. I

I hazing + 1 I

PMMMMMMMMMMM1

CATTLE PRODS I

I’ll bet you haven’t seen Texans cry I
like that since the Alamo!
hazing +1

LMMMMMMMMMMM

ELEPHANT WALK
TOO DISGUSTING TO
MENTION, EVEN FOR THE
LAST WORD! -
hazing +2

| CAR BATTERIES ON |

I THE NIPPLES I
I The title is self-explanatory. Not I
I just for mob torture anymore! I
I Yeouchl I
I hazing +1 I
I
I
I
ul

PM

BUDDY’S
OFFICE
Buddy won’t
Pick up four A pledge drinks ﬁnish grilling
losers in deferred brothers under the ‘a, you unmyou ,0“
rush. table and himself 5 a six on the die.
+4 PLEDGES into a coma. Two rolls a tum
— V1 PLEDGE
Visiting

Barbara

nazi torture sﬂeisand
marine Chamber concert

unl7mml>le/

Pledgeclass raid on
rival house nets
their charter, their
coat of arms, four
composites, and a
bottle of SoCo.
House rep goes up.
ROLL AGAIN

Four pledges lost
somewhere on
the East Coast
during drunken
scavenger hunt
—- 4 PLEDGES

Two pledges drop
down to a 0.004 GPA
this term.

-2 PLEDGES

During a pledgeship
activity inspired by

+2 PLEDGES
mild medium barbaric

Pledge quits due to

financial reasons

(i.e. he’s through

buying his friends)

—1 PLEDGE
gammy DW666 .’ZfJBB
Dinner for two: $43.54. Win big brawl Pledgeclass
Tux rental: $54.00. against rival midterm grades
Tickets: $80.00. house, your rep holding steady at
Hey fellas. Slnce you're on campus goes 0.53, you're forced .
just paying for Sex. why up. to initiate now.
not save money and ROLL AGAIN. GO TO INITATION.

get a hooker?

“Die Hard III,’’ a pledge
is mauled to death for
wearing a “Dave
Matthews sucks” t-
shirt on the Colonnade
-— 1 PLEDGE

Representative

LEE-HI

from yourfrat’s Three Pledges

N t‘ 1 contract deadly _
Hgaldgfiarters 3TD’5 after Partil Free parkmg'
comes by with roadcheese. Greasy f°°d' L°I‘°’
LOSE one TURN. — 3 PLEDGES °f "°°""

 

