 

Arc/In

, 43 ';‘Jl<-3 ‘tbff.

‘.-

P

  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
     
  
  
 
  
     
 
  
   
    
    
    
    
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 

\e V4‘,
I F

\,».
v. - F:
..

I" 4

0.

:
I , '‘
c»
or‘

VOLUME 102, No.13

Local coffee shop
closes abruptly

The Ruse, owned by two W&L alums,
shuts down on it’s ﬁrst anniversary

By Heather McDonald

STAFF WRITER

The Ruse abruptly ended only a
year after it began.

On the one year anniversary of
the opening of the only late-night
coffee shop in town, owners Dow
Harris and Rich Walter closed down
the Ruse, without any prior warning
to the public. To celebrate the anni-
versary, Harris produced a three—act
play he had written, entitled
“Sedalian Vision.”

In the play, one man took over the
airwaves, but Harris’ character gath-
ered together a group of “tele-rang-
ers” to overthrow the one man in
power. Then, there were many televi-
sion channels to choose from, and
the actors performed parodies of dif-
ferent television shows. In the ﬁnal
act, Harris was sweeping up the ﬂoor
of the Ruse. Then, Walter came up
on stage and began talking about
ideas with Harris, and how both had
dreams they wanted to pursue. How-
ever, a ﬁctional coffee shop that failed
was standing in the way of these
dreams.

Some of the audience began to
wonder if the play was actually reality
at this point. Then, Harris told Walter
that if Walter left, he would crawl out
the window and drive to Alabama to
gather his tele-rangers. Walter then
picked up his guitar and walked out

the door, and then Harris crawled out -

the window. The two stood outside
the window, waved good-bye and

closed the shutters. Then both of them
drove away.

Senior Lora Ellison said that much
of the audience was confused at the
play’s ending.

“It took people a long time to re-
alize what was going on,” Ellison
said. “Some people though it was a
joke.” Ellison was a regular customer,
who went about five times a week to
drink coffee, do homework, and talk
with other people who gathered at
the Ruse.

The Ruse’s landlady was also there
that night and had no idea that Harris
and Walter were planning on closing
shop. About seven customers stayed
to help clean up and close the Ruse
after Harris and Walter left.

“Most people were in shock,”
sophomore Tom Grove said, who
stayed to help out by stacking chairs
and mopping the ﬂoors.

“It’s understandable they had
dreams they wanted to pursue, but
nobody knew,” Grove said. “It’s so
sad.”

Both Harris and Walter are 1998
graduates of Washington and Lee.
The Ruse was their dream to bring
Lexington’s universities and commu-
nity together in an open and creative
setting. They transformed the old
Jordan House on East Nelson Street
into a multi-roomed coffee shop that
often showcased local folk and blue-
grass bands and poetry readings.

It is not known exactly what put
the Ruse out of business a year after
they opened.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

  
  

‘‘ v|‘V.-.,l«:A1-:_.I..'.vyLj.Il‘l| L.‘ 7""

VVASHINGWON Ev. l..l‘-LE UNIVERSIW

l.FT%”‘-557.‘-TDl‘J, VA 24450

I

‘II
M
i *3. ,1.) V.
3 ‘rfﬁﬁﬁ

x"l!£I

4» M-.

nkﬁué“

I

r 4/

9

  
    
 
 

' ¥_ .,.a

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

NOTHING GOING ON BEHIND CLOSED DOORS: The Ruse coffee shop, which has stood vacant since
Halloween. Owners Rich Walter and Dow Harris announced the surprise closing during their

ﬁrst anniversary celebration.

“[Harris and Walter] called it a fail-
ure, but there were many, many good
things that came out of it,” Ellison
said. “I know people who were abso-
lutely crushed when they realized the
Ruse was closing.” Ellison said that
she, studied abroad last term, and she
told stories about the Ruse to people
she met in London.

“This was the part of Lexington
that I was in love with and wanted to
come back to,” Ellison said.

Students respond weakly to
diversity education workshops

Offered due to recent events, workshops elicit little interest

By Max Smith

STAFF WRITER

Assistant Dean of Students
Courtney Penn has always seen a need
for diversity education at Washington
and Lee University and consequently
planned workshops on the issue.

“These recent campus issues high-
light the need for us to have the work-
shops,” Penn Said. “There’s so much
ignorance out there, even among ex-
tremely bright students. It’s a cycle of
being socialized in the United States
that has oppression so entwined that
we don’t notice.”

Penn hopes his new workshops will
educate students about the origins
and impact of stereotypes in today’s
diverse population.

Several campus incidents this year
have called W&L’s willingness to ac-
cept diversity into question. One
freshman left before matriculation be-
cause of a fraternity member’s anti-
Semitic and racist remarks. A disc
jockey on W&L’s campus radio sta-
tion, WLUR, made homophobic re-
marks about the president of the Ex-
ecutive Committee. Another student
ran on an anti-gay platform in his un-
opposed bid for a class presidency.

“Due to our homogeneity, we, as
an institution, have a responsibility to
make sure students are intentionally
taught to be clear about these issues,”
Penn said. “Workshops like this are
going to be more and more common
as America becomes more diverse.”

But few students are going to the

workshops. Nine students are enrolled
in the four-week workshop and 10 are
enrolled in an intensive one-day work-
shop.

“I’m disappointed with the num-
bers because I know more people than
that have expressed interest,” Penn
said.

Some students haven’t heard about
the workshops despite computer
broadcast mailings, ﬂiers around cam-
pus, and brief articles in campus news-
papers. Others know about them but
don’t plan on attending.

“This workshop is deﬁnitely a good
thing considering our recent problems
around campus,” freshman Bart Peters
said. “But I don’tthink I’ll go.”

SEE ‘DIVERSE’ ON PAGE 2

-4‘ 

photo by Lisa Lin/Assistant Photo Editor

INDIAN SUMMER: A student uses the unseasonably warm weather to study on the Front Lawn.

  

 

 ﬁlial ‘

U112 iitng-tum {H

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITv’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

vi

.2199!)
i

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1999

   VMI rat

beaten

By Michael Crittenden

NEWS EDITOR

A Virginia Military Institute fresh-
man remains in the school’s inﬁnnary
after being beaten by fellow cadets Fri-
day. '

Theodore P. Francis, 18, of North-
em Virginia was apparently beaten

early Friday morning by ﬁve freshmen i

cadets, according to VMI spokesman
Chuck Steenburgh. Frances was
treated at the VMI inﬁrmary for cuts
and bruises, then taken to Stonewall
Jackson Hospital. The X-rays turned
up no additional injuries.

In an interview with the Richmond
Times-Dispatch, Steenburgh de-
scribed the beating this way: “Early
this morning [Friday] at 4 a.m., ﬁve
fourth-classmen apparently entered
the room of another fourth-classman,
restrained him and proceeded to strike
him about the head and shoulders. It
drew some blood. He was taken to our
post hospital, or infirmary, and
treated.”

Student investigators, who will re-
port to the school’s Executive Com-
mittee on the incident, are question-

SEE ‘BEATING’ ON PAGE 2

Mock Convention stepping
up momentum as event nears

Tightened schedule intensiﬁes fundraising to foot $270,000 bill

By Max Smith

STAFF WRITER

The 2000 Republican Mock Con-
vention is revving up. So is the price
tag.

Mock Convention General Chair-
man Mark Schweppe said that by the
time the ﬁnal balloon drops on Satur-
day, Jan. 29, one of Washington and
Lee’s largest student—run activities
will have spent $270,000.

“We want to do some things not
done before. . . [and] the 1996 Con-
vention is a tough act to follow,”
Schweppe said. “Things are coming
together because we’ve got a lot of
people working really hard.”

Mock Con will have about $200,000
after the Presidential Gala this week-
end. Schweppe isn’t too concerned
about raising the rest of the money.

“We’re in the heart of fund-rais-
ing season right now,” Schweppe
said.

Mock Con has two fund-raising
projects still lined up. They will
send letters to students’ parents on
Monday. Students will call parents
and alumni who haven’t given
money the week before Thanksgiv-
ing break. Alumni have already
given about $15,000 through letter
campaigns.

“We want more from alumni and at
least $40,000 more in all fund-raising
efforts,” Schweppe said.

Mock Con based their budget on
the 1996 Convention’s actual ex-
penses. Individual state delegations
are responsible for raising their own
funds through contacting businesses
and philanthropic organizations in
their state. Mock Con is contacting
parents and alumni through its own
campaign.

Schweppe said one main ﬁnancial
consideration for the 2000 Mock Con-
vention is rising speakers fees. He
gave former vice-presidential candi-
date Jack Kemp as an example of the
higher fees. He said Kemp, who they
don’t plan on asking next year, cost
the Convention $30,000 at its 1995
Kickoff and now charges double for
an appearance. But Schweppe said
Mock Con must pay such high fees.

“The big name speakers that make
the Convention are expensive,”

Schweppe said. 4

Schweppe said conservative
writer Bill Bennett is the only con-
ﬁrmed speaker so far. He said Bennett
is still negotiating a speaking fee with
Mock Con through Political Chairman
David Dardis, who has worked for him.

They’ve sent invitations to speak
to all of the Republican presidential
nominees and Representative .I.C.
Watts of Oklahoma.

Other Mock Con costs include a
$21,000 facilities budget. Schweppe
said building a stage and renting a
sound system and projection screen
for the Warner Center isn’t cheap.
Mock Con will also pay technicians
for their help with the rented equip-
ment and Physical Plant employees for
construction and maintenance help
over the weekend. Additionally, Mock
Con must rent a lot of the equipment
journalists need in the Press Room.

Political publication subscrip-
tions, security at the Convention,
decorations and other publicity and
travel expenses for speakers must
come out of Mock Con’s pocket as
well. Schweppe said Mock Con
even pays if they choose to have
an elephant or some clowns in the
parade.

Mock Con has stepped up fund-
raising efforts after their decision
to move up the Convention from its
original March 3rd and 4th dates,
Schweppe said.

“When we moved up the date, we
lost five‘weeks of fund raising,”
Schweppe said.

Mock Con established two new
raffles this year to make up for the
lost time. They held a rafﬂe for par-
ents over Parents Weekend that fea-
tured a free stay at W&L’s Morris
House next year. The University
donated that prize and local mer-
chants donated other prizes for the

raffle. Mock Con made about $1,000
from the rafﬂe.

For the students, Mock Con orga-
nized a Presidential Gala rafﬂe that fea-
tured a weekend at the Homestead
and some other prizes donated by 10-
cal merchants. Mock Con treasurer
Carolyn Richardson said that raffle
has “gone over well” and expects an-
other $1,000 from the effort.

Schweppe said the major portion
of Mock Con’s budget comes» from
the Dallas-based Hatton W. Sumners
Foundation for the Study and Teach-
ing of the Science of Self-Govem-
ment, which donates a little Over
$25,000 every year. That adds up to a
total ofjust over $100,000 for each
Mock Convention.

They also received about $40,000
from the Executive Committee, which
derives its funds from every W&L
student’s activity fee.

Mock Con decided to boost the del-
egate fee this year to $20 from l996’s
$15. Every student who wants to be on
a state delegation and stay on the ﬂoor
during the Convention must pay the
fee. With 1,300 delegates signed up so
far, Mock Con has made $6,500 more in
delegate fees than the 1996 Conven-
tion. Schweppe said his committee de-

cided the rise in price would really help
after the date moved up.

With the Presidential Gala kicking
off festivities this past weekend,
Mock Con has a simple goal.

‘‘We’ 11 be happy if we break even,”
Schweppe said. “Our main purpose
this weekend is to get people excited
about Mock Con.”

November 8, 1999
OPINION:

W&LIFE:
God’s report card

SPORTS:

LAST WORD:

L}

Clip: Ring-tum ilﬂlri

President of the Universe

Volleyball heads NCAA tournament

McManemin: Love Doctor

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

PAGE 5

PAGE 6

 

 

PAGE 2

 @l12iKing-tum lﬁhi

NOVEMBER 8, 1999

‘BEATING’ from page 1

ing the ﬁve freshmen that are suspected in the attack. The
Executive Committee is made up of nine studentjudges
who could acquit the students or recommend disciplinary
proceedings, including dismissal from the school.

Steenburgh said that VMI officials had some idea of the
motive for the attack, but that at this time would not elaborate.
He also stressed that the attack was a unique “blanket party
kind of thing.” A blanket party, in military jargon, is an attack
during which the victim is held under a blanket and beaten.

“This is not a common occurrence,” Steenburgh said.
“Cadets have impromptu wrestling matches once in awhile,
but they’re good natured. This was different. . . There were
blood stains in the room.”

According to a VMI second classman who wished to
remain anonymous, the attack was most likely the result of
an encouraged campus attitude of“policing one’s own.”
The source said that ifa cadet is not up to the standards of
his peers, that the student’s fellow cadets are encouraged
to make sure that person is brought in line. This attack was

‘DIVERSE’ from page 1

unique, however, because it involved physical violence.

“It has always been a wake-up call to the person, but
with no physical violence done to them,” the source said.
“A cadet may be wrapped up in their mattress and left
naked in the shower all night, but never beaten. There may
be just a little damage done to their pride, but we don’t
beat them. Violence like that is not tolerated.”

This is not the ﬁrst violent episode the school has seen
in recent years. Last year, six cadets were expelled for lying
about a series of spankings. In 1997, a freshman accused
seniors of striking him and ﬁve other freshmen with a belt.
And in 1996, six students were suspended for assaulting a
freshman classmate, and nine more cadets were disciplined
for their roles in the attack.

The student group investigating the debacle is called
the Ofﬁcer of the Guard Association, and is made up of 12
members, one from each cadet company. The nine—member
Executive Committee is made up of the three class ofﬁcers
from each of the three upper classes.

Penn fears W&L students dismiss any attempt at diver.-
sity discussion as “a PC attempt.”

“That’s not what this is about,” Penn said. “This is
about being a part ofa civil community and I don’t think
students can learn this when we are as homogenous as we
are, it doesn’tjust happen by accident. This [workshop]
can broaden students’ horizons.”

Penn’s new workshops follow W&L’s recent efforts at
boosting diversity on campus. The University has placed
more emphasis in past years on minority enrollment and
discussion of diversity issues.

Penn’s workshops will educate students on the causes
of oppressive behavior.

“I explore these issues from a theory that oppression is

really the culprit of all of the inequality and social injustice

in the world,” Penn said.

Penn said everyone is an agent or target of oppression
at times. Individuals, organizations and societies can ex-
hibit oppressive behavior and attitudes to a variety of
groups.

Penn has three goals for his students. One is increasing
personal awareness on oppression and diversity.

“I want to help students learn more about how they feel
about different issues relating to diversity,” Penn said,
“whether sexism or race relations or any group issue.”

Penn also tackles stereotypes with the help of reading
materials and open forums of discussion.

“The workshops will feature experiences that allow stu-
dents to talk freely on perceptions and to explore their
origins,” Penn said. “Stereotypes come from some truths,
but they’re overgeneralized and take away from an
individual’s identity.”

Finally, Penn wants students to leave the workshops

 

Film Society presents “Character”

The next presentation of the Washington and Lee Film
Society will be the 1998 Academy Award winner for Best
Foreign Language Film, Character (Netherlands, 1997), di-
rected by Mike van Diem. Screenings will be at 7:30 p.m. on
Friday and Saturday, Nov. 12 and 13 in the Troubadour
Cinema, at the comer of Main and Henry Streets. As al-
ways, there is no charge for admission, although contribu-
tions are gratefully received. This ﬁlm is in Dutch with
English subtitles.

This visually stunning film is set in 1920s Rotterdam,
and the plot revolves around the murder of a ruthless slum-
lord and the relationship between him and his murderer.
Character is the “dark, bitter, and fascinating” (Roger Ebert)
story of a boy growing up in poverty and harshness and
ﬁnding his own success to be a means of punishing his
own father.

Day to speak at Ethics Institute

Louis Day, a professor at Louisiana State University, will
be the keynote speaker for Washington and Lee University’s
28th Annual Institute on the Ethics of Journalism. Day will
deliver a public lecture on Friday, Nov. 12 at 4:30 pm. in
Room 327 of the Williams School of Commerce.

Day teaches media law and ethics in the Manship School
of Mass Communication at LSU. He has written numerous
articles and papers on the legal liabilities and responsibili-
ties of the media and is the author of Ethics in Media Com-
munications: Cases and Controversies, a widely used col-
lege text on media ethics. Before embarking on his teach-
ing career, Day worked as a television journalist in Georgia
and as a military public affairs ofﬁcer in Washington, D.C.
and Vietnam.

The Institute on the Ethics of Journalism is part of W&L’s

~ program in applied ethics, Society and the Professions, which
‘brings nationally recognized scholars to campus to engage

in classroom and public discussions on ethics in the ﬁelds
of law, medicine, business and journalism.

Moot Court to argue current case
Only ﬁve years ago, Congress passed a law designed
to protect women from domestic violence and sexual abuse.
It is called the Violence Against Women Act.

But is the Violence Against Women Act constitutional?
The Supreme Court recently announced that it would con-
sider that question. The Supreme Court will hear arguments
in Brzonkala v. Morrison this spring. The case involves a
brutal physical assault on a woman attending school at
Virginia Tech who is now attempting to use the Violence
Against Women Act to seek redress. Unfortunately, be-
cause the Supreme Court does not allow cameras or micro-
phones, only those sitting in the Supreme Court gallery
will get to hear, in full, the arguments for and against the
Act.

Unless you are at the Washington and Lee University
School ofl.aw on Thursday. Nov, 1 1 at 4 run. For one and

prepared to change their communities.

“[Students learn] how not to be part of an oppressive
community around them,” Penn said.

Penn thinks all students can grasp concepts offered in
the workshops.

“These are the simple things we try to do, it’s not brain
surgery or rocket science,” Penn said. “It’s just a small
step in trying to create a more educated student body.”

“We have to challenge these socialized norms because
that will determine the next step,” Penn said, “whether we
discard these norms or perpetuate them.”

Despite students’ acknowledgment of the workshops’
importance, few are actually attending. Of those students,
most aren’t new to the issue and have participated in other
campus diversity groups like PRIDE.

“There is a tendency to preach to the choir,” Penn said.
“But in reality the choir needs rehearsal too. They re-
hearse to be good at what they do.”

Penn said these students can go into the University
community and really make a difference promoting diver-
sity and cultural understanding.

Freshmen and their parents have been especially sup-
portive of his efforts, Penn said. He’s received several notes
and some verbal encouragement from these parents.

“Parents understand how important it is to be versed
on the issue of diversity,” Penn said. “You must be able to
operate and be comfortable in any environment.”

Penn emphasized the objective intent of his workshops.
“I’m not going to want to change someone’s way of think-
ing,” Penn said. “If you understand why you think a cer-
tain way, you’re honest with yourself about it and you’re
happy with it, ﬁne. I just want to give you an opportunity
to see the larger picture.”

half hours, W&L’s four best oral advocates willargue a
case directly patterned on Brzonkala v. Morrison. Federal
appeals court judges from the third, fourth and eighth cir-
cuits, one level below the Supreme Court, have agreed to
come to Lexington to judge the arguments.

The W&L law students will be taking part in the 20th
annual John W. Davis Moot Court Competition. The com-
petition is named after John W. Davis, an 1892 graduate of
W&L who also earned his law degree from W&L in 1895
and later taught in the Law School. Davis was a 1924 presi-
dential candidate and also served as a congressman, am-
bassador and solicitor general of the U.S.

The competition will take place in the Moot Courtroom
of Sydney Lewis Hall on the W&L campus.

Jasiewicz receives research grant

Krzysztof Jasiewicz, professor of sociology at Wash-
ington and Lee, received a $40,000 grant from the National
Council for Eurasian and East European Research for his
project “The 2000 Presidential Election in Poland.”

J asiewicz's project will prepare a set of data compris-
ing the most important information about voting behav-
ior in the 2000 presidential election in Poland. Data col-
lected will be analyzed in the context of prospects for
political stability in Poland, the debates on voting be-
havior and the nature and social cleavages in a pluralist
democracy.

NCEEER is the largest provider of resources to U.S.
scholars for research in the social, political, economic and
historical development of Russia, Eurasia and East Europe.
These ﬁndings help U.S. policymakers, the academic and
nonproﬁt communities and American businesses better
understand current developments and their signiﬁcance
for the future.

Business Ethics Institute hosts lecture

The Society of the Professions at Washington and Lee
University will hold its 16th annual Business Ethics Insti-
tute and is bringing guest lecturer Patricia H. Werhane to
campus. Her lecture, “Corruption and Moral Risk,” will be
held in Room 221 of the Williams Commerce School on
Friday, Nov. 12 at 4:30 p.m.

Werhane, the Peter and Adeline Rufﬁn chair of busi-
ness ethics and senior fellow of the Olsson Center for Ap-
plied Ethics in the Darden Graduate School of Business
Administration at the University of Virginia, is a founding
member and past president of the Society of Business Eth-
ics and past president of the American Society for Value
Inquiry. From 1989 to 1992 she was chair of the ethics advi-
sory council for Arthur Anderson and Co., which engaged
in a ﬁve—year teaching business ethics project on the inte-
gration of business ethics into traditional business school
disciplines.

Werhane is the author or editor of 13 books, including
Ethical Issues in Business, edited with Tom Donaldson,
Persons, Rights and Corporations and Adam Smith and
His Legacy for Modern Capitalism. She has written exten-
sively on employeeand employer rights, whistle blowing,
mergers and acquisitions, responsibilities of multinational
corporations and insider trading. Her most recent work
focuses on heathcare organizations and on environmental
sustainability.

The public is invited to attend this lecture.

Photo by Emily_Ba—rnes/Photo Editor
TWANG, TWANG, TWANG: Robert Earl Keen performed at the Student Activities Pavilion last

Saturday night as part of the Mock Convention festivities.

Write for the Phi!

If you're interested in getting
involved, send an e—mail to
p/2/@w/L/.ea’u or come to our
weekly meetings Tuesday at 7 p.m.

E11, Put your DIRTY ywunlzv
“ in your DIRTY CAR and

ET OUTTA TOWN!

Head north about 10 miles on Rte. 11 North to Fairfield.

 

FAIRFIELD

SQUARE

SHOPPING CENTER

The area's NEWEST, CLEANEST coin laundry and car wash facilities
are on the left about a 1/4 mile past the Fairfield Texaco.

Open 7 days a week from 7 run. to 9 pm.

‘Self Service Laundry
‘Self Service ¢ar Wash
» -Automatic car wash

...there's even a full menu restaurant
featuring your favorite foods and beverages.

     

Open Tues. 5 -9 .m.
Wed. — Sun. 11:3 am. -9 p.m. (Closed Mondays)

Do your laundry, wash your car, get a delicious meal or snack
and enjoy the clean, modern facilities.
Cleaning your clothes and car
have never been this enioyable!

Donelle - Grmhk Ans & Illustration - 540/464-3351

 

 

NOVEMBER 8, 1999

@112 {Ring-tum lﬂlii

PINION

The President of the
Universe must lead a revolt
against the secular crazies

Government by the politicians, for the politicians and of
the politicians must now come to an end. The barbaric
wars, the extortionary taxes, the eloquent lies, the ruthless
shakedown of companies for campaign contributions as
well as the continuous manipulation of the American people
by the amoral politicians has become intolerable.

Wars are initiated by presidential politicians to enhance
their historical status and poll ratings. Fictional threats to
national security are stridently declared by the politicians

f to justify foreign military intervention and the perpetual

procurement of weapons of mass destruction, i.e. nuclear,
‘chemical and biological.

Trillions of tax dollars are channeled to create a non-
Christian new world order where God is cast aside as He
already is in public pseudo education and at the United
Nations. Terrible moral crimes such as abortion are leg-
islatively condoned by the compromised politicians fa-
cilitated by corrupt court decisions rendered by politi-
callyappointed judges and funded by illicit appropria-
tions.

Note that Bill Bradley and Al Gore are both pro-abor-
tion and pro-homosexuality.

Well over 50 percent of the American children of God
are directly or indirectly dependent on some form of athe-
istic government for a mindless job or bureaucratic dole
provided by Roosevelt’s Social Security and the multitude
of degrading assistance programs which are abused by
the recipients.

Consequently, a humble dependency upon God as the
omnipotent Father and a prayerful weakened by secular
government. Christian culture has been vanquished and,

LETTERS TO

Diversity makes W&L more
competitive and reputable

Dear Editor,

This letter is in response to last week’s letter to the
editor that called on admissions to cut down the level of
diversity at W&L. Allow me to say that the author of that
letter, who bravely refused to sign his name, is an ignorant
fool. Hghas mistaken the word “university” for “beer drink-
ing on a homogeneous campus”. While I’m no going to
argue with beer drinking, homogeneity is not something
that should be a goal of any institution of learning. How-
ever, three things that Anonymous faults W&L with,
“recruit[ing] GPAs, countries, and backgrounds,” should
indeed be goals of the admissions department. If Wash-
ington and Lee wishes to remain one of the premiere insti-
tutions of education in the country, it must diversify its
student body even more, and do so in a hurry, or suffer a
steady decline in the quality of students that arrive here
each fall. Diversiﬁcation at W&L is not a question of lift-
ing up a repressed group of people, but a matter vital to
the survival of this institution.

Every year scores of fully qualiﬁed minorities turn their
backs on W&L because they don’t think they’ll be wel-
comed. I know of four minority students from my high
school alone that were scared away from W&L as soon as
they saw some statistics on the population of minorities
here. Those four are now at Harvard, Yale, Williams, and
NYU, respectively. They simply looked at the numbers.
and didn’t feel that they wanted to be part of that small

@112 ‘tiling-tum Iﬁlii

Executive Editor
Associate Editor
News Editor
Opinions Editor
W&Life Editors

Polly Doig
Hollister Hovey
Michael Crittenden
Stephanie Bianco
Ginger Phillips
Elianna Marziani
Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin

Sports Editor
Last Word Editor

Copy Editor Heather McDonald
Photo Editor Emily Barnes
Assistant Photo Editors Lisa Lin

David Hanson

Layout Editor Neal Willetts
Circulation Director Leo Brown

Advertising Director Frances Groberg

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬁect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Ofﬁce: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
https//wlu.edu/-phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

in particular, the Christian virtues of faith, hope and char-
ity have been replaced by mother govemment’s intrusive
involvement in every aspect of an individual’s life.

Godless government has evolved into a contemporary
idol of worship where ‘religious services’ are held at the
temples of the White House, the U.S. Capitol and the ﬁfty
state capitol buildings attended by the parishioners of the
news-entertainment industry.

The politicians’ programs of counterfeit compassion
have spawned massive and heartless bureaucracies
staffed by parasitic functionaries who choose not to
employ their God given talents for which they will be
held accountable by the President of the Universe. The
President is omniscient and omnipotent, He will make
sure the necessary actions take place.

The solution: pray that God will exorcize the political
atheists and through a holy prophet similar to Saint Joan
of Arc bring forth a Christian king submissive to the Gos-
pel who will build the City of God as proclaimed by Saint
Augustine. This writer, a counseling psychologist, wel-
comes the opportunity to speak at Washington and Lee
about this theme.

— Joseph E. Vallely, M.A.

Editor ’s Note: The author of this letter has no known
connection to Washington and Lee University, and cer-
tainly none to The Ring-tum Phi. It was received by The
Phi and printed accordingly.

THE EDITOR

group that takes up two tables in the D-Hall. Those were
four fully qualiﬁed students who didn’t give W&L a sec-
ond thought, and I’m positive that this phenomena is re-
peated at thousands of high schools across the nation. If
W&L does not diversify and offer minorities a sizable com-
munity they will be comfortable with, W&L will lose quali-
ﬁed students year after year.

While there are minorities who are scared away from
W&L, I also have no doubt that there are bigots who feel
welcomed by the limited quantity of minorities here, as a
number of recent cases would seem to indicate ‘.'Ap”p'e"aliri‘g'
to racists, even inadvertently, can have devastating af-
fects on the school that should be self-evident. Many stu-
dents arrive at college with opinions that are not fully for-
mulated, and if racists are allowed help to mold those opin-
ions, the results could be, and have been, devastating. It
is a shame that minorities have had their suspicions of
W&L vindicated.

As multiculturalism becomes a greater and greater ac-
cepted notion, W&L’s national reputation will suffer if it
remains mostly white. It will become viewed as a closed
minded institution, something that a university should
never strive for. As its national reputation suffers, top high
school students of all ethnic groups will repeatedly pass it
over, and W&L will be left with less qualiﬁed students. If
it’s any consolation to Anonymous, I’m sure these less
intelligent student will be white alcoholics.

Lastly, the goal of any educational institution should
be to introduce its students to different and unique ideas.
Many have said that you learn more from friends than
from professors at college. If your friends are all the same
as you, its doesn’t seem like all that much learning will be
going on. More diversity is needed at W&L so that more
viewpoints will be offered to challenge students’ tradi-
tional set of beliefs. Anonymous would prefer we all go
through college never learning about what is outside white
America. '

Washington and Lee needs to do more, not less recruit-
ing of minorities. Diversiﬁcation at W&L has nothing to
do with the advancement of perceived underclass. It has
everything to do with staying competitive in the next cen-
tury, and W&L’s ability to attract top minority students
while offering the best education that it can. Anonymous
calls a “good change” one that “has improved the reputa-
tion of the school. Has made it more competitive.” A greater
proportion of minorities at W&L will do just that, and is
something that should be done.

Sincerely,

John Power ’O2

“No, I’d rather be buried outside with
the horse, then people would bring me
apples and sugar cubes.”

-Emilie Wiesner ’00

“No, I’d rather be cremated."

PAGE 3

This will Show
-those Godless poliﬁciam ‘ts

+ha’r we shall come.
toqclclner and rise
above ’r‘ncm, \cd
W Jme ?l§Z’$l
of -lhc UH

Three cheers for the anti-
diversity bigots of W&L

Dear Editor,

I would like to shake the hand of the brave soul who
called him/herself “anonymous” in last week’s letters to
the editor. In that letter, “Anonymous ”explained so elo-
quently the necessity for bigotry and segregation at W&L
and clariﬁed that much of the problems we are experiencing,
such as the lapse in the speaking tradition, can be directly
linked to the diversity at W&L. You are truly brilliant in your
ignorance, bigotry, and narrow-mindedness.

History proves that when the status quo is changed or
when things seem to go a bit wrong, it is best to lay the
blame on those who are different and diverse. What is
more logical than that? W&L just may need some good old
McCarthy-esque ﬁnger pointing in this time where tradi-
tional W&L values are so clearly threatened. In the name of
homogeneity and North Face jackets, I am now more than
willing to follow your lead, whoever your courageousness
may be.

Alter your letter, I am ashamed that I have friends from
other countries, who are independents, and who prefer
achieving a high GPA to maintaining Washington and
Lee’s high drinking status on the Princeton Review. Obvi-
ously, the values that these “friends” of mine hold are
impure, unclean, and downright obscene. But thanks to
your enlightening bigotry, I realize that my friendship with
these diverse untouchables should be no more. The quali-
ties that I admired in them really do not matter, because
their diversity at W&L obviously overshadows all their
appealing and likeable characteristics as human beings.
They too, in some crafty and conniving way, are involved
in a strong and ever-growing “diversity conspiracy” to
deal a swift kick to the crotch of W&L’s values. I even bet
that the diverse are behind the recent problems with the
computer network. It’s probably those crafty Asians, or
maybe it’s those sneaky independents in an alliance with
the Turks. _

The Admissions Ofﬁce must halt the ﬂow of intema—
tional students, high GPAs and those who have no desire
of going Greek, and support the fact that ignorance is
bliss. We must eventually have a degree of homogeneity
that George Wallace and David Duke would ﬁnd comfort-
able. And if diverse people do somehow keep weaseling
their way into W&L, they must be forced to assimilate by
requiring them to listen to Widespread Panic and Dave
Matthews, while sewing the school’s supply of worn out

scruffy hats and sunglasses straps, or by making them wax
all the unused kayaks that lay dormant on so many of W&L’s
SUVS. My dear friend Anonymous we can no longer sit back
and watch as Admissions allows diversity inﬁltration, diver-
sity indoctrination, diversity subversion, and the international
diversity conspiracy to sap and impurify all of our precious
Washington and Lee values, which I am sure “Anonymous”
will be the first to ﬁnd and expose, anonymously of course.
Sincerely,
John Kerkering ’ 02

ewe, . ..

E,
oke of the Week:

42/

There once were two guys, named Bill and Bob who
liked to go hunting. One day they were out hunting with
Bill’s dog Old Blue. Bob saw a raccoon in a tree and raised
his gun. Bill said, “No, no. Put your gun down. Old Blue’s
got it.” So Bill went up in the tree and hit the branch. When
the raccoon fell to the ground, Old Blue ran up and humped
it to death. Later, Bob saw a bobcat in a tree and raised his
gun. Bill said, “No, no. Put your gun down. Old Blue’s got
it.” So Bill went up in the tree and hit the branch. When the
bobcat fell to the ground, Old Blue ran up and humped it to
death. Bob thought this is awesome. He said, “I can’t be-
lieve it, we’ve killed a raccoon and a bobcat and haven’t
used one bullet yet.” Finally, Bob saw a baby black bear in
the tree. He raised his gun. Bill said, “No, no, Bob. Put your
gun down. Old Blue’s got it.” So Bill went up into the tree
and reached back with his bat to hit the branch. He took a
swing and completely missed. Bill began to fall out of the
tree and started screaming, “Shoot the dog! Shoot the dog!”

 

Is a quarter pound enough for
three guys for two days?

—— Anonymous sophomore guy

J}

 

-Rena Thragarajan ’00

“No, because I don’t think I could
keep such illustrious company.”

“No, I’m not a Lee or a horse.”
-Mike Malinzak ’02

—Garreth Winstead ‘O3

 

PAGE 4

 

@112 iﬂtng-tum lﬂhi

W& IFE

NOVEMBER 8, 1999

Signature Student

. y . ? 1] ,0] Elianna Marziani ute‘Shye  § ' . ~
933100 017'] 0 FEATURESEDITOR m].ndedandhbeml..  
. . . , - Sttakin ast d b k Ever wondered what kind of ProfessorB.
By Glnger Phllllps. éinralne ggjlolp with ffiendlslpy ma grades God would make in college? Sanborn ex-
FEATURESEDITOR What makes her Smile? awe“ Wonder no more. The answer is plainedthat God

Does taking a full course load,
playing on a varsity sports team and
having an almost 24 hour job sound
like too much to handle? At least one
Washington_& Lee University stu-
dent, junior Jessica Parrillo, doesn’t
seem to think so.

“I am definitely busy, but I
wouldn’t choose not to do any of
the activities which I am involved
in,” Parrillo said. “My experience
at W&L wouldn’t be half as great
if I weren’t doing all these

anyone that knows me knows that I
smile and laugh at everything!”

She also likes to listen to mu-
sic, pretty much any kind except
country and heavy metal. “I love
bands like Sarah McLachlan, Dave
Matthews, Bare Naked Ladies, and
my new favorite band, Vertical Hori-
zon,” she said. “My roommates
throughout the years have also
taught me to appreciate rap music as
well.”

things.”

Parrillo is the dorm counse-
lor for 17 freshman girls on the
fourth ﬂoor of Graham—Lees
Donnitory. She feels that being
a dorm counselor is rewarding
because it gives her the oppor-
tunity to share all the things
that she loves about W&L with
the freshmen and to help make
their W&L experience a posi-
tive one. She helps her fresh-
men with everything from de-
ciding which classes to take to
listening to and advising them
about any serious problems
they may have.

“Being a dorm counselor
is an almost 24-hourjob, but
I love it,” she said. “The girls
on my hall know they can come to
me any time to get advice orjust to
talk about their day. My door’s al-
ways open.”

Parrillo also spends seven days a
week keeping in shape for her week-
end cross country meets. She is an
avid runner and captain of the W&L
Cross Country Team.

“Our team is twice the size it was
last year,” Parrillo said. “We had a
lot of new talent come in this year to
join the strong base we had from last
year.”

This year’s team has been the
strongest cross country team
W&L has seen in years, winning
third place at the state meet at
Bridgewater and first place at
ODACs over Parents’ Weekend.
Parrillo also made the prestigious
All ODAC Team.

“Next weekend we have the
NCAA Regional meet in Sewannee,”
she said. “We are hopeing to finish
off the season just as strong as we
started it and run as well as we did at
ODACs.”

Parrillo, a psychology major,
has been successful in balancing
her many roles. “Having so much
to do forces you to better struc-
ture your day,” she said. “Plus,
there’s not much time for sleep!”

She likes to relax and wind
down by “spending time with
friends, taking a peaceful drive on
the Blue Ridge Parkway, going for

 

Photo courtesy of Jessica Parrillo
Jessica Parrillo has become an
integral part of the W&L commu-
nity through her positions as
dorm counselor and Rho-Chi.

Parrillo already has big plans if
she were to win the lottery tomor-
row. “My first big purchase would
be a new car, a black Saab,” she
said. “I would also use the money
to pay for graduate school and take
a year just to travel around the
world.”

Where exactly would she go? “I
would love to drive across the coun-
try because there’s so much I want
to see here that I haven’t seen yet,”
Parrillo said. “Or I would go on a trip
to Australia because I’ve never been
and have always .had a fascination
with it.”

Parrillo says her favorite car-
toon character would have to be
Piglet from Winnie the Pooh.

“He’s just this tiny little guy
with the biggest heart in the world.
Piglet would do anything for his
friends, and I think we’re a lot alike
in that way.”

Another of her favorites is the fa-
mous Sunday brunch in the Dining
Hall. “You can always count on there
to be great food at Sunday brunch
and it’s such a great time to catch up
with friends and find out about
everyone’s weekend.”

Although Parrillo is extremely
busy enjoying her college experi-
ence, she has had some time to re-
ﬂect a little on life in general, saying
that her motto is “The more you open
your mind to new things, the more
you can learn to appreciate in life.”

W&L students give God a grade

coming to Washington and Lee Uni-
versity in a Mindbenders perfor-
mance of Richard Orloff’s “The
Whole Shebang.”

“It’s a real cute play. It’s funny,
touching, and it makes you think:
what is there about life that is worth
living for?" said junior Kathie
Soroka, the play’s director.

“The Whole Shebang” is a one-act
play that presents God as a university
student who must defend His honors
thesis on the topic of creation before
a panel of professors.

The play is yet another look at cre-
ation, to top off all of the discussion
that has been brewing at W&L since
the convocation address by evolution-
ary biologist Stephen Jay Gould. The
play did not emerge as a result of all the
creation/evolution discussions going
on around campus, but Soroka said, “I
did think it would fit in nicely with them.”

This play takes on a whole differ-
ent issue, however. Rather than argu-
ing for or against creationism, this play
presents God as a student whose task
was to create a universe, and the panel
of professors judges how perfect His
creation truly was.

Junior Howard Sanbom is the ac-
tor playing Professor A, who he de-
scribed as “a conservative, ‘been
there’ kind of cynical jerk,” as opposed

' grade?

presents His
work by bring-
ing in two aver-
age people to
show the profes-
sors; His ideal
“ a v e r a g e
people” could
not make the
presentation, so
God was stuck
with two “white
trailer-park
trash” people to
display to the
panel for judg-
ment.

WhatwasHis ,, ,,_. .._
The
Mindbenders
will not reveal it
until their perfor-
mance Tuesday,
Nov. I6,at8:00 p.m.

The cast of this performance in-
cludes Brian Prisco, Howard Sanbom,
Kathie Soroka, Leah Sawyer, Neal
Willetts and Jane Ledlie.

Sanborn cited “the opportunity
to work with people on the cast” as
one of his main reasons for acting
in this performance. “It’s really a
blast. They’re really talented people.
Ijust couldn’t pass up the opportu-

nity to work with them again.”

“It’s a fun, simple way to keep act-
ing and get silly,” Soroka reasoned.

Why should you give up all the
excitement of a Tuesday night in
the library for this performance?
Soroka had an answer. “It’s about
half an hour long and it’s funny.
And, it makes youthink about the
human condition, the good things
and the not so good things about

 

V A Photo 'bVy‘Emily Eames/Photo Editor

BENDING YOUR MIND: Brian Prisco ’00 and Howard Sanborn ’01 rehearse with
director Kathie Soroka ’01 for the upcoming production of “The Whole She-
bang,” a humorous and thought-provoking account of God’s thesis on creation.

life. But, it doesn’t make you think
too hard. A fun and safe alterna-
tive to an otherwise rowdy Tues-
day night... just kidding,” she said.
“Seriously, though, if you want
something light and entertaining
to break up your Tuesday night,
this is the show for you.”

And, ofcourse, it may be the only
opportunity you get to compare
your GPA to God’s.

 
 
  
  
  
  
 

 

AED seminar.  'caI:Schfo6i.Adin
. your Deeision;’f K I

, V. 4:30p.m._ ‘I

g 44:00 pm. .

 

4:00p.m.y *

Fr'iday.,.November' 12»  
g Business Ethics Institute Lecture. “Corruption and Moral
V - . Risk,” Patricia Weifhane; the Darden School, University of

.Virginia;1Room22l, Williams School. I

  

.; 

. KaplanMCA,”l‘Pretest.Eg V
yfshouldattend. oo  'ScienceCenter.

if ;hnSo¢iety."5Character;’ I
E  ’ I ? . ‘  . University Jaiz_Ens$ei“nble; Keller Theatre, Lenfest.

":00‘pj.m; I   (M&W),
—  "7I:‘iY91I!i.91i)fo13001-.    E

Davis Moot C0urt.Fin__als.‘Mo0t Court Room, Sydney
—LewisH31l.., , S  if .
Math Department Student Reports on Summer Research
 Adam Heni'y:’00,Vn'giI1iatJernigan ’00 and Sybil
 Pt'i.nce,’0I.Root1i6,iR(}bim0!iiHa1l.Reii'eshmentsat3:30p.rrL

Journalism Ethics  Keynote Lecture.
, C1lobaIizati0n's Challenge tbfﬂie PI'e'S.S’\ Moral Imperative,”
0 £I)r.Lo’  Day,LSU‘ R‘oom~327, Williams School.

,  “Chaxacte

,‘ _ (Holland,l998),directedbyMike
L vai1Diem. Troubad011r.Cine1na.=f.»,, .

   
 
 
  
 
  
 

e taking the MCATin 2000

  

, oubadour Cinema. 9
er David Amram and the

 
  

 vs. Gettysburg College.

   

  

 

TOYOTA —-1 01

l\/IOKE VALUE/LE99 MONEY

INTKODUCINGTHEALLNEW

TOYOTA ECHO

9tai ni$l0,000 —- About $12,000 well equipped.

THERE’9 AN ECHO OUT THERE! Great looks on the outside, great room on the insiole.

_Cruise the highway at 40 Mi’G'...very thrifty. Power? Plenty! It’s a 1.5 liter hi-tech

16 valve DOCH engine with variable valve timing (new) that kicks out 108 horsepower

any time you want it. Anal best of all, Echo starts atjust $9,995.

   

5 GA

“yaeop/e afmzam//reea/om o/speecf/o mafe up/for /5e
/reec/om oflfouygl wélicf/fey auoirf ” ~ ,7G'er[eyaa1-J

RHYIVIES

   

Tastes like it, too —
hot and creamy with vanilla,
cinnamon and cloves.

Try CHAI at our free tastings
each Saturday in November,
and take home a bottle at 20% off.

 

  
  
    

_  thru Toyota Motor Creelit helps those with limited
credit history buy or lease a new Echo or Celioa. See elealer for eletails.

[— ® TOYOTA real values. every dciy.—J Wwwg 6-ttoyo-ta Corn

LlXl,.N.ll.T_llll

(‘~“//(iv .‘/fur/.a'/1/‘/y (4;

   

 

 

ESPRESSO - CAPPUCCINO
FRESH ROASTED COFFEES - FINE TEAS

‘EPA esumaled 32/39 City/llwy automatic, 34/41 City/llwy manual. ‘Base MSRI’ excluding lransponalion, tax, tags and regionally required equipment.

9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET
LEXINGTON 0 464-6586

 

 

 

NOVEMBER 8, 1999

 “RT S

PAGE 5

Volleyball wins
ODAC tourney

By Sarah Schmidt

STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee volleyball has been beating up on
its ODAC opponents all season long, so it was no surprise
when the Generals breezed through the conference touma-
ment this weekend, dropping only one game.

W&L headed to Hollins undefeated in the conference
and with a 20-6 overall record. The W&L volleyball dynasty
has now claimed three consecutive ODAC tournament titles.
In addition to the conference title, the Generals also had
three players named to the ODAC all conference team, which
was announced Friday night. Sophomore Lindsay Ruckert
was named Player of the Year as well as her second appear-
ance on the First Team All ODAC. Senior Nancy Reinhart
was named to the First Team for the third straight year.
Sophomore Lee Charbonet earned a spot on the Second
Team as well.

The top seeded Generals unloaded on Guilford in the
first round, surrendering only 12 points in the whole match
(15-5, 15-2, 15-5). Ruckert led the way with 10 kills, three
aces, and three blocks. Reinhart contributed seven kills, two
aces, and 10 digs. Junior setter Katherine Kline finished
with 17 assists.

W&L faced Emory and Henry in the semifinals Saturday,
sending the Wasps packing after dropping the first game
(12-15, 15-7, 15-9, 15-5). Once again, Reinhart, Ruckert and
Kline anchored the Generals. Reinhart totaled 13 kills, four
aces, and 19 digs. Ruckert added 21 kills and 13 digs while
Kline notched 30 assists.

The win over Emory and Henry earned the Generals a
spot in the tournament championship versus Roanoke Col-
lege. It only took W&L three games to ﬁnish off the Ma-
roons and claim the conference title (15-12, 15-8, 15-7). As
usual Ruckert dominated the game, slamming 23 kills, three
blocks and eight digs. Charbonnet added 1 1 kills, four aces
and eight digs while Reinhart knocked had 12 kills and 11
digs. Kline teamed up withjunior setter Pam Salsbury for 49
assists. Ruckert’s outstanding play earned her tournament
MVP honors.

“We played our own game,” claimed Ruckert. “We had
conﬁdence and maintained focus.”

Although the Generals won the ODAC tournament the
past two years, this was the ﬁrst time a tournament win
would guarantee a spot in the NCAA tournament. “It was a
goal from the beginning,” Reinhart noted. “We were even
more focused knowing it meant going to nationals.” Head
coach Terri Dadio-Campbell acknowledged that the tearn’s
conﬁdence and focus were keys to the stellar play of this
weekend. “We have had a greater talent level than our con-
ference opponents the whole year, the key was knowing we
were better and playing at our level,” Dadio-Campbell stated.

Although the Generals have dominated the ODACs, they
are only ranked ninth in the South region, probably the
toughest in the nation. However they feel their tougher
schedule this season has prepared them for the challenges
ahead. “We played in some big tournaments and that was a
step in the right direction,” Dadio-Campbell said.

Reinhart agreed, noting that the team seems to be com-
ing together at the right time. “We have had our ups and
downs this season, but we dominated this weekend, win-
ning in three games in the championship. We are peaking
now and that will be important.”

The Generals take action Thursday at Emory in the open-
ing round of the NCAA tournament. It will be a rematch of a
game from the Maryville tournament between W&L and
Savannah College of Art and Design. The Generals lost that
match in ﬁve games before going on to win the tournament.
W&L is ranked sixth in the South Region of the tournament.

By Mike Weil

STAFF WRITER

The Generals’ bid for a third straight comeback victory
and a winning ODAC season fell short Saturday when
sophomore Brad Wiginton failed to convert on a 35-yard
ﬁeld goal with less than two minutes to go in the game.
The missed ﬁeld goal gave Emory and Henry a 23-21 ad-
vantage that they would not relinquish. The loss ended
the Generals’ ODAC record at 3-3 and lowered their over-
all mark to 4-5.

The Generals fell behind early, as they have done so
often this season, when Wasp quarterback Matt Olexy

V found receiver Jason Gardner in the endzone from 16 yards
out for a 7-0 lead.

Emory and Henry kicker Chris Epperly nailed a 3 l—yard
ﬁeld goal with 12: 13 to play in the half to give the Wasps a
10-0 advantage.

Senior fullback Scott Moses cut the lead to 10-7 just
two minutes later when he plunged into the endzone from
one yard out.

Just when the Generals seemed to gain the momentum,
they were crippled by a mindless mistake. Emory and Henry
drove into W&L territory but was kept out of the endzone
and lined up for a ﬁeld goal attempt on fourth and three.

The kick was off target, apparently giving the Generals
the ball back, down by only three points, as the half was

coming to an end. However, an offside penalty was called
giving the Wasps a first down, which they would convert on
a five-yard touchdown run for a 10-point lead heading into
halftime.

W&L seemed unaffected by this mistake early in the
third quarter as Moses again scored on a one—yard touch-
down run with 10: 12 to play that cut the lead to 17-14.

Eight minutes later the Generals hit paydirt and their only
lead of the game when senior quarterback Christian Batcheller
hit junior Wes Hardy for a 18-yard touchdown strike. How-
ever, these were the last points the Generals would put on the
board.

This 21-17 lead would hold until 4:16 to go in the game
when Emory and Henry tailback Oliver Jordan scampered 40
yards ‘ to the endzone giving the Generals only one more
chance to earn a victory.

W&L’s cause was helped in a big way when sophomore
lineman Jeff Mclntyre blocked the Wasps’ extra point ensur-
ing that a General ﬁeld goal would take the lead instead of tie
the game.

Everything seemed to fall in place for W&L and it looked
as though once again they would earn a dramatic come—from-
behind victory when they drove all the way down to the
Emory and Henry 18-yard line.

But Wiginton fell to the pressure and misfired on the kick,
enabling the Wasps to run out the clock and hand the Gener-
als a devastating 23-21 defeat.

Mistakes haunt Generals in tough loss, 23-21

After suffering defeat to Emory and Henry, Washington and Lee falls below .500 mark

W&L was led offensively by freshman running back Chris
Sullivan who carried the ball 26 times for 144 yards. Sullivan
has been a pleasant surprise for the Generals this season as
he has made the loss of junior Marc Watson much easier.

This effort was not enough however, as the loss marked
the 17th consecutive year the Generals have fallen to the
Wasps.

, “You begin to wonder if we’re ever going to beat them”
said head coach Frank Miriello. “You start believing it must
be written in stone that Emory and Henry will beat Washing-
ton and Lee.”

Miriello was pleased with the Generals’ effort, especially
after the offside penalty at the end of the first half. “The
players handle those type of things very well. If that penalty
had been a big problem, they wouldn’t have come back from
it,” he said. '

The Generals put a close to this topsy-turvy season and
try to even their overall record at home this weekend against
Swarthmore College. The game marks the end of the careers
of Batcheller and senior wide receiver J .T. Malatesta, two play-

ers who will most certainly be immortalized in the Generals’ A

history books.

Scoring the victory next weekend on their last game would
be “critical” according to Miriello. “To get a win would be the
perfect ending to their careers here,” Miriello said. W&L hopes
to win for Batcheller, Malatesta, and all the other seniors next
weekend. Kickoff at 1 p.m.

XS: .- ~

Photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Editor
DRIVING AHEAD: (Above) Freshman Kevin
Bibona dribbles ahead of a trailing Roanoke
player during Wednesday’s semi-ﬁnal loss.

SAY rr AIN’T so: (Above, right) Senior Ben
Thompson stands in disbelief after Roanoke’s
overtime goal crossed the line for the win.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

Men’ssoccer loses ODAC quarter-1 T

By Robert Turner

STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee’s Men’s soccer team con-
cluded their season Wednesday in the fnst round of the
ODAC tournament in a heartbreaking loss to instate rival
Roanoke. The game was one of the most exciting in recent
Generals’ history, as the teams combined for six goals be-
fore the Maroons finally prevailed 4-3 in double overtime.

Fifth seed Roanoke came out on a roll, getting on the
board in the match’s second minute on a penalty kick. The
Maroons added to their advantage only seven minutes
later when they slid a shot into the Generals’ net.

W&L quickly overcame their early game jitters, and got
on a roll of their own, scoring three unanswered goals
before the end of the first half. The Generals’ first mark
came on in the 27th minute when senior Jon Wilson scored
off an assist from Paul Wallace.

“We just met together and decided that it was time to

T'r'eall§"d’e‘d’ic"éit‘e "ourselves. We didn’t want to let this be our
last game,” said senior captain Scott LeToumeau.

That meeting seemed to provide the motivation that the
Generals needed. Senior captain Jamie Parker then added
two more goals, the ﬁrst with just under 13 minutes left in
the half on a penalty kick, and the second only minutes
later off an assist from Wilson. Roanoke managed to re-
gain some momentum going into the second half, tying the
score 3-3 just before the half.

After such an offensively active ﬁrst half by both teams,
the second half seemed like an entirely new match. W&L’s
defense, led by freshman goalie Tim Foley, held strong against
various Roanoke attacks, but the Roanoke defense was just
as successful and regulation ended with the score still tied.

The ﬁrst overtime periodpwas much like the second half,
as both teams’ defenses refused to yield, and it looked as
if neither team would be able to score another goal. With
8:13 left in the second overtime period though, the Ma-
roons ﬁnally managed to score off of a deﬂected ball, and
the almost unbelievable match — and the Generals’ sea-
son —- came to a sudden and heartbreaking end.

  

E *5?

.. . 0 :14“

Photo Courtesy of Ben Thompson ‘

The match was especially difficult to take for se-

niors Jamie Parker, Jason Miller, Ben Thompson, Matt
Arnold, and LeToumeau, who had helped lead Wash-
ington and Lee soccer to some of its greatest successes.
Their exuberant play and quality leadership will be
greatly missed. “You just have to play your heart out
until the ﬁnal whistle,” said LeToumeau.

W&L swimmers show no mercy

Mens’ and womens’ swim teams sweep young R-MC squads

By Steele Cooper

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s and women’s swim
teams continue to build up steam towards impressive sea-
sons. The most recent stop along their paths was a home
victory Saturday over a very green Randolph-Macon Col-
lege. The underrnanned R-MC teams are both competing
in their inaugural seasons this year.

The men’s swim team, still coping with the withdrawal
of senior captain Jared Fribush, defeated the Yellow Jack-
ets 94-44. The women came away with the 124-72 win to
improve to 3-0 on the season.

Both W&L squads were paced by their strong groups
of underclassmen swimmers. For the men’s team, Sopho-
more Rick Black led the way with two individual wins. Black
took home the 100—yard free (5 1 .14) and the 500-yard free
(5:26.22). - ‘

The Generals’ freshmen class also had a strong show-
ing on Saturday. Freshman Pat Frankfort and classmate
Zach Fake both came away with individual victories. Frank-
fort scored the win in the 100-yard butterﬂy (1 201.82) and
Fake won the 200-yard free in 1:55.17.

Junior Colin Hayes captured the win in the 200-yard
individual medley with a time of 2:09.87 and the men’s 200
medley relay time won in 1:43.97. Hayes and Frankfort have
both scored wins in all three meets of the season.

While the men’s team has gained two wins in as many
weeks to move to 2-1, they have already experienced their
worst loss of the season.

With the withdrawal of Fribush two weeks ago, the Gen-
erals are now forced to make it through the season missing
one of the most proliﬁc competitors in W&L swimming
history.

“We are going to miss his leadership skills as much as
his swimming skills. He was great at both motivating us
mi‘ wiwvv'wv races. zmcl it really is a loss for the team. lt’s

going to be tough on us but we have to do whatever we
can to rebound from this,” said Black.

The women’s team improved their record to a perfect 3-
0 by defeating the Yellow Jackets 124-72 also off of strong
showings by their younger swimmers.

Leading the way for the women’s team were freshmen
Kelli Austin and Blair Huffman and sophomore Katie
Kennedy. Each gained two individual wins on Saturday.

Austin won the 200-yard free (2:05.00) and the 500-yard
free (5:42.06). Huffman proved victorious in the 200-yard
butterﬂy and the 200-yard backstroke with times of 2:20.29
and 2:21.88, respectively. Kennedy’stimes of2:20.57 in the
200-yard individual medley and 2:32.78 in the 200-yard
breast stroke were both good enough to place her ahead
of the ﬁeld.

Kennedy joins Frankfort and Hayes in scoring wins in
all three meets ofthe season. Kennedy also holds the new
W&L record in the 200-yard-breaststroke. That time of
2:28.77 set on Oct. 30 against Marymount was fast enough
to surpass the NCAA provisional qualifying mark in that
event.

Both squads will host Gettysburg College on Sunday.
The Generals look to these groups to be a higher hurdle
than the young R-MC teams proved to be. The men’s and
the women’s teams both fell to Gettysburg last season.
Coming off of their recent string of wins, however, the two
Generals teams look conﬁdent.

“Gettysburg has good depth and strong swimmers. It
will be a lot different than this [R-MC] meet. I think we
have an advantage now that we get to face them at home,”
said Black.

“This Gettysburg meet is going to be a big one for us
and I think a good test,” said Huffman. “So far we’ ve been
swimming very well and have a lot of conﬁdence going
into this meet because we are undefeated.”

The Generals look to keep this streak alive when they
host Gettysburg on Sunday.

* Up. Down.

Think there's nothing to do during the week? Well, head to

Up. Down. ‘
Ski all season long for $99.

Virginia's Blue Ridge Mountains, where you'll find Wintergreen
Resort. Wintergreen offers a new quad lilt and over 19 slopes and
trails. For both skiers and snowboarders, we also have one of the
region's best terrain parks with Virginia's only half-pipe. And during
our 25th anniversary season, you can ski all you want for just $99,
with Wintergreen's Ski ‘til you drop Season Pass.*

30, call us today at I-804325-8165 og visit us on the Web

at www.WinfergreenResort.com And get in on a deal
that's simply too good to pass up.

*Not valid Sunday mornings, Saturdcn/5 or Holiday periods.

‘€99

VIRGNIA
IS FOR
LOVERS

 

 

PAGE6

It’s the country

‘ii’? «a
53.3 E
5.5.5 =5
kair-ala 9-:

LAST WORD

iJovEMBER8,1999

Romance and robosexuality in the Zlstcentury

‘ By Kevin McManemin

UMMAGUMMA

Warning: Puritans and others up-
tight about. . . it should not read this
article for fear of burning. The article
deals rather explicitly with
teledildonics and — oh, now you just
want to read it even more, don ’t you?
Pervert. Go ahead, Burn.

Ah, November——that magical time
of year when every young man’s fancy
turns to romance. The sky’s getting
darker, the weather’s getting colder,
leaves are falling, stuff is dying all over
— the stage is set for love.

As we move into the 21st century,
the prospects of ﬁnding true love are
bleak at best. Having a crush on some-
one will likely get you sued for sexual
harassment, marriage is about as
stable an institution as the Russian
Parliament, and sex and love have be-
come notjust mutually exclusive, but
almost antithetical. But never fear —
technology is here to save us. If hu-
mankind is no longer capable of love
in the post-modem world, we will at
least be able to build machines that
are. Here are a few of the ways the
respective worlds of romance and ro-
bots are rapidly becoming intertwined:

Love bleepers
This is the biggest craze to hit Ja-

pan since Tamagotchi, Pokemon and
Pachinko combined. Leave it to the
Japanese to fuse dating with bleeping
electronic gadgetry. Love Bleepers are
currently catching on in Europe and,
trust me, it won’t take long before

someone figures outthat there is a LOT
ofmoney to be made offall the loneli-
ness in America.

- So how do these clever little micro-
chips sow the sparks of passion? First,
a lovelom guy or gal enters their inter-
ests into their Love Bleeper, choosing
from a wide variety of the usual stupid
romantic cliches (“long walks on the
beach,” “dinner by candlelight,” etc.).
When two Love Bleepers come within
range of each other, they each emit a
single beep —— a kind of warning sig-
nal to everyone in the area that two
losers are walking around. However, if
the Bleepers are programmed with
similar interests, well, they bleep and
squeal and wail and generally get
about as excited as Bill Clinton at an
intern convention.

(CONGRATULATIONS, Kevin
McManemin! You’re the one-mil-
lionth writer to make a Bill Clinton/
intern joke! Thank you for the valu-
able service you’re providing the na-
tion.)

Apart from making the Tokyo sub-
way system the seventh circle of
bleeping electronic hell, these little
Love Bleepers don’t seem to have
much use. I mean, they match up
people with similar interests. Haven’t
we all heard the old theory (I believe
first proposed by Dr. Paula Abdul) that
opposites attract? Think of all your
friends in relationships (I know you’re
not — people who have time to read
the back page of the Phi aren’t in rela-
tionships). How many couples make
you say “they were made for each
other,” and how many make you say
“what in God’s holy name keeps those
two from slitting each other’s throats?”

Besides, shouldn’t we be attracted
to people and not their machines?
Where is thejoy in the timeless art of
seducing a pocket calculator? Who
wants to date a machine, besides Tip-
per Gore?

(CONGRATULATIONS Kevin
McManemin, for making the one mil-
lionth A1 Gore/robot joke. Thank you
for the valuable service you’re ‘pro-
viding the nation.)

Internet matchmaking
I f Love Bleepers aren’t your style,

you could always try the Internet for
some hot 21st century luuuvin’. Re-
member that the Internet was founded
by and for monstrously lonely people,
and today online dating and
matchmaking services abound.

The good thing about the Internet
is that it puts you in contact with a
huge number of people without the
inconvenience of actual human con-
tact. The downside is that it’s even
easier to lie on the Internet than on
Capitol Hill.

For instance, remember that girl
Michelle you met in the AOL
chatroom, that perky 22-year-old
UCLA grad student whose interests
include “cooking, movies and three-
somes?” Real Name: Ivan Tumov.
Real Hometown: Smolensk, Russia.
Real Age: 54. Real Occupation: Reg-
istered sex offender.

There are some real humdingers of
falsehoods on matchmaker pages too.
Just chew on these “facts” from
match.com: “the most important thing
women look for is a sense of humor
(48 percent) with just 5 percent say-
ing it was important their date was

“Three Kings” doesn’t
deserve the royal treatment

ByBﬁmHma)

PHI MOVIE GUY

I was planning on reviewing “Three Kings” while it was
still in Lexington, but it has already left the theatre. This
does not come as a shocking surprise. However, the fact
that it was replaced by “Superstar” is a bit insulting. “Three
Kings” is a decent ﬂick. David 0. Russell (“Spanking the
Monkey”) wrote and directed this Gulf War drama. George
Clooney (“From Dusk til Dawn”), Mark Wahlberg (“Boogie

liant director with artistic integrity and cinematic original-
ity, and all the other words you can read about in Rolling
Stone magazine to make you sound like you know what
you are talking about.

And it is in fact the direction that makes this movie
worth watching. I love gunfights as much as the next guy,
the more gore the better. As much as everyone likes to tote
“Saving Private Ryan” as a brilliant movie because it is so
emotionally wrought, a huge bloody steaming chunk of
the credit goes to the immense gore factor. Well, Russell

conda”) take to the sands of Iraq in
search of illegally confiscated Ku-
waiti gold in order to illegally conﬁs-

Nights”), and Ice Cube (“Ana-

3

ofa gun wound, Clooney fires a bullet
into a corpse. The camera follows the

ain’t no moron. In describing the effects
4 5 bullet into the body and we see it lodge

cate the gold for themselves.

You might have been like me and
thought, “A doctor, a porn star, and
a rapper as war heroes? What the hell are they thinking?”
Well, as much as I can't believe it myself, the acting is
surprisingly good, with all three doing their damnedest in
spite! of the contrived and boring dialogue they are given.
But, the best parts of the movie come from the supporting
actors, Jamie Kennedy (“Scream 2”) and Spike Jonze “(The
Game”). Kennedy, as always, is ridiculously amusing, and
Jonze, who typically earns his keep as a music video direc-
tor and currently is making a splash as director of“Being
John Malkovich,” shines as the dimwitted Conrad Vig, a
sycophantic little toughguy with a squeaky Texas drawl.

The directing is astounding, pretty much the selling
point ofthe movie, since the script is so vile. Which con-
fuses the hell out of me, because Russell both wrote AND
directed. While the dialogue has an almost accidental ten-
dency to be funny at points, the story is both cliched and
sloppy. The ending is atrocious, you half expect to hear
the choir of angels riff and see the sun shining brightly as
they walk into the sunset.

Yet, Russell manages to film this horrid plot in such
daring ways that it makes me wonder whether or not he
suffers from some sort of bipolar multiple personality de-

‘ fect. Maybe there is naughty “Davey” who wrote this script

on a roll oftoilet paper while in the bathroom at Shoney's
reading through his monthly issue of Guns and Ammo,
and his creative alter ego “Dah-Veed,” the startlingly bril-

 

Ice Cube and Mark Walberg make the best of a miserable
script in David RusselI’s “Three Kings.”

(WAIT UNTIL IT COMES
OUTON VIDEO)

into the internal organs and spew a thick
green mucus. And during a particularly
tense standoff between Saddam’s goon
squad and Clooney’s Heroes, a gunfight breaks out which
is filmed entirely in slow motion. Bullets pop and whiz
through the air, like the instant replays for baseball games,
then smash into the unwary victims, splattering brains and
puncturing limbs, like the instant replays for hockey games.
These moments make “Three Kings” a viable flick.

Another refreshing motif used by the movie, and per-
haps overused, is the blatant attempts at non—villifying
and non-stereotypically labeling the Arabs. There is a def-
nite intent to show Saddam’s soldiers as victims ofa cruel
American attack, and the non—soldiers as decent
hardworking people. However, Russell gets so worked up
in his attempts to say, “see, I'm sensitive to your plight,”
that he sometimes forgets that he is making a war movie.
Kubrick managed to do this in one brief moment in “Full
Metal Jacket” by making the sniper a young Vietnamese
girl.

So in case you had some burning desire to go see this
movie, let me tell you, don't wony, you didn't miss much. If
you want to see a decent ﬂick, rent “Saving Private Ryan”
and watch that over and over again until “Three Kings”

comes to the
Council li'm'c'/ ,

rental stores. You
won’t be disap-
Student Travel
from A to Z

    

pointed.

      

London 130
Paris 178
Barcelona 21?
Amsterdam 196
From Washington

each way based on a rt

purchase. Fares do not
include taxes, are
valid for departures
in November and are --
subject to change. V’
Restrictions apply.

good looking or had a good body.”

BULL$#l%. BULL$#!%.
BULL$#!%. BULL$#!%.

But the march of lies doesn’t stop
there: “Men also believe a sense of
humor is the most important quality,
but being good-looking or having a
nice body was their second most im-
portant attribute (18 percent)”

Now, I expect flagrant lies from
women, because that’s what they do
best, but come on, guys! Who do we
think we’re fooling? Until I start to _see
female comedians like Paula
Poundstone or Rita Rudner or the cov-
ers of Playboy and Maxim, I don’t
want to hear another deceitful word
about humor being more important to
us than looks. Let’s at least be men
enough to be honest about our super-
ficiality.

Teledildonics

Now here’s where things get inter-
esting. I think I’m going to have to
defer to the pros to explain this one.
From www.teledildonics.com:
“Teledildonics is a virtual reality ap-
plication which allows users to inter-
actively have sex with other users who
may be miles away, or across the globe.
It is currently in its infancy, but poised
to take the world by storm in the next
few years. While eventually technol-
ogy will allow for full-body suits which

 

AMD-K6®-2 Processors with
l00Mhz System

ATI 3D Rage LT Prom hardware
accelerated 3D graphics with 8 MB
video memory

Up to 14. 1 " TFT Active Matrix Dis-
NW

4X DVD-ROM Drive

Dolby Digital Certified Sound

Up to 1MB L2 Pipeline Burst Cache
SoftTouch Palm Rest

lntemet Zone with Easy Scroll But-
ton

JBL Pro Audio with Bass Reflex
Compaq Extra—Mile Service Service

OOOOOOOOOOOOOCOOOOOOOOOOOOO0000000OOOOOOCQ.QQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQ

stimulate all ﬁve senses, the first gen-
eration ofteledildonic devices will be
. . . automatic penis stimulators which
. . . plug into your printer port.”

Hmrnmm.

So we have seen the future, and
it’s sex in binary? Was the old analog
version of sex really so bad that we
had to go digital? Now for those of
you who believe that there aren’t ac-
tually people out there pathetic
enough to have sex with their printer
port, the first thing I’d say is that
you’ve obviously never met my friend
Alex. Then I’d also point out that pros-
titution is one of the world’s largest
industries, and teledildonics is far
more convenient, far less embarrass-
ing, and you can be fairly sure that
there aren’t syphilitic warts growing
on your COM ports.

So no matter how disgusting it
strikes us as now, teledildonics will
almost undoubtedly become a part of
our sexual landscape in the future.
Never underestimate the will of the
nerds to combine their two favorite
hobbies - computers and masturba-
tion.

Sticky societal aftermath
So if we’re all humping machines in

the future, what fate awaits the human
race? Unless sperm learn to travel
across fiber—optic cable, how is the

 

Intel® Pentium“ III processor run-
ning at 450 to 550 MHZ or Intel®
Celeronm processor

Iomega ZIP BUILT—INTM Drive

1.5 Mb Max Digital Modem
Cable/ADSL Ready 10 Mbps
Ethernet Port

S3 Savage4 2X AGP 3D Graphics
Card with 8 MB SyncDRAM Video
Memory Digital Creativity Imaging
Center with IEEE-1394 ESS Solo PCI
Audio

6X DVD-ROM

2 Open slots, 3 Open Drive Bays, 4
USB ports, 2 IEEE 1394 ports

ooooooo0ooooooo000000000ooooooooooooofoooooooooooooooooo

species going to procreate? Will we
become the only species in history to
sex itselfinto oblivion?

Never fear—the Internet is here to
save us again. Porn magnate Ron Har-
ris has founded www.ronsangels.com,
a site that auctions off models’ eggs.
Buy a mode1’s egg, travel down to the
local sperm bank, stir in large bowl,
cook at 98.6 degrees for nine months
and Voila! The 21st century recipe for
human life. Someday perhaps we’ll
even be able to pick out our babies at
Amazon.com or eBay and have them
shipped to us in the mail!’ Imagine the
convenience!

So our precious human race will
survive -- but what about romance?
Has this already antiquated notion
gone the way of monarchism, chivalry,
a benevolent God, and other outmoded
concepts? The obvious answer is that
the only love possible in the post-
modern world will be self-love, as our
generation is proving to be almost. . .
almost. . . as arrogantly self-absorbed
as the insidious baby boomers.

In the twenty-first century, we will
no longer be heterosexuals or homo-
sexuals, but robosexuals. And all I
have to say about that is
0110011(X)101010l11(IX)10l01(X)1101l0110
1001 101 10101 10100101 1010101010101
10101010. 0.

  east eeuruuv
DA°ll’[N@ same

BA(HEI.OR#1 BA(HELOR#2 BA<HELOR#3

0 High-speed Bi-directional Parallel
2 Port, IEEE-1284 Compatible" Up to
0 1200 x 1200 Dots Per Inch

: Sound Levels: less than 47 dB,
0 Printing, 0dB, Standby

: Dual-head thermal inkjet, up to 7
0 Pages Per Minute (Black) and Up to
: 3‘/2 Pages Per Minute (Color)

0 Power Requirements: less than 12
: Watts Average Printing, 2 Watts
: Standby

. Operating System Support:
0 Microsoft Windows 3.1x, Microsoﬁ
:Windows 95, 98 and Microsoft
0 Windows NT 4.0
O

3 W. Nelson St.

540-464-1501

Lexington, VA 24450

Mon; - Thurs.
Fri. - 8:00a.m. - 9:00p.m.

 

“We’re more than just hot dogs; we also serve fresh bagels,
‘International Wrapps’and high protein smoothie.”

8:00a.m.-7:00p.m.

Sat. -11:00a.m. - 9:00p.m.

