..Av‘Llt
, f ”>“I$.75">
\.[-/if 
E‘IQ- ‘I4-

c.'2..

VOLUME 102, No.14

Lex Lanes
scores strike

Students ﬁnd alternative social
scene for Lex Thursday nights

By Max Smith

STAFF WRITER

In a town with little entertainment, more and more Wash-
ington and Lee University students are answering the call
of the strike, gutter ball and funny looking shoes.

Thursday night means bowling at Lexington Lanes for
several W&L students and their numbers seem to be grow-
ing every week.

“We come every Thursday.” senior Rvan lancaitis said.
“It’s a good time and it breaks the monotony of the frater-
nity basement.”

Lexington Lanes assistant manager Dan Jollay said in
past weeks there haven’t been many students, but num-
bers picked up last week.

“Last week was the best turnout so far,” Jollay said. “It
was wall-to-wall in here.” Jollay said about 80 students
came last week.

Junior Dan Birdwhistell has gone almost every Thurs-
day this term.

“It’s grown over the term,” Birdwhistell said. “There
were 15 at the start of the term and now it’s up to 40 stu-
dents coming out.”

Several students said this term is the ﬁrst time they’ve
regularly come to the Lanes. Junior Chris.Price has come
“as Often as he can” for the past two-and-a-half years.

Lexington Lanes titles Thursday night College Night
and offers free shoe rental and $2.50 games.

43 W&L undergraduate students and two law students
occupied 12 out of 24 lanes last night.

Several W&L students mentioned how welcome an al-
ternative bowling is compared to their usually monoto-
nous social and academic life.

“It’s something different to do and it sure beats cow
tipping,” Price said.

“It’s fun and a random, good alternative on a Thursday
night compared to doing work,” Birdwhistell said. “And

Q
15

they have these really good corn dog nuggets.”
SEE ‘BOWLING’ ON PAGE 2

ilting-tum lﬂ

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITv’s WEEKL\' NEWSPAPER

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

photo by David Hanson/Assistant Photo Editor

 

. -. .... ... . ,.....-........_........,.........._.,,,,_.,, .,. .,

NOV 181$

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1999

Rats expelled

Five VMI cadets leave school
for role in beating of student

By Michael Crittenden

NEWS EDITOR

Five students were expelled this week for their role in
last week’s beating of Virginia Military Institute fresh-
man Theodore Francis, and one more has been
discliplined.

The ﬁve freshmen, or “rats”, who took part in the
attack were dismissed this week after an investigation
by a student conduct committee found them guilty of
acting inappropriately in the matter.

The commanding ofﬁcer of Francis’ company has
had his rank stripped for ordering the ﬁve freshmen to
deal with Francis, and is facing a possible suspension
or dismissal. The cadre of the company may also re-
ceive disciplinary action in the near future for their role
in ordering the attack.

The 18 year-old Francis was beaten early last Friday
morning by ﬁve fellow rats. Francis was admitted to the
school’s inﬁrrnary with cuts and bruises, and was later
taken to Stonewall Jackson Hospital in Lexington for X-
rays.

According to one third classman, the rats involved
in the attack said they were merely acting on an order
from their commanding ofﬁcers to send a message to
Francis. This was not a valid defense, however, said
the third classman because cadets are supposed to
know the difference between right and wrong.

“One of the things we try to teach them ﬁrst and
foremost is do always do what is right,” said the source.
“They are supposed to follow orders, but they are also
supposed to follow those orders in an appropriate man-
ner.”

According to a VMI second classman who asked to
remain anonymous, Francis was beaten because his
performance had become detrimental to his company.
Francis’ behavior was apparently getting his fellow rats
in trouble, and they were ordered by their commanding
ofﬁcer to make sure Francis improved his performance.
That is where the problem began, said the source, who

r we {A4-4):-c-.. ..-..._. -.» .

J S  BURN l.lBFlAFlY
cl:
LEXIN-3 N, VA 243.50

LEE UNIVERBITY

By Michael Crittenden

NEWS EDITOR

For Lisa D’Amelio, the sound of
children playing has been drowned
out by the clatter of heavy con-
struction machinery for almost a
year.

“lt's an everyday racket that is
distracting,” D’Amelio said. “The
school has tried to help us, but it is
still extremely inconvenient.”

D’Amelio, the director of the
Montessori School for Children in
Lexington, is talking about the con-
struction of Washington and Lee's
new sorority houses. The five
houses, which were begun last fall,
have required numerous machines
and construction vehicles to pass
the school everyday. D’Amelio said
that her school has had to alter its
landscape because of the construc-
tion.

“We had to move our play-
ground from the front of the school
to the back," D’Amelio said.
“Washington and Lee reimbursed
us and we were given some assis-
tance, but it was still a change.”

W&L has not left the school out in
the cold, however, with programs like
last week’s Montessori Music Festi-
val donating money to the school.
Panhellenic spokeswoman Katie
Boening said that they are just trying
to help.

“We understand the troubles the
school has faced because of the con-
struction, and just wanted to help out
with their situation,” Boening said.

Members ofPanhellenic and the In-
terfratemity Council (IFC) sponsored
the third annual Montessori Music
Festival that took place last Wednes-
day. Volunteers from both groups sold
tickets and acted as ushers at the
event, which featured student band
Ring’s End and local star Leslie Tucker.

“We just want to be good neigh-
bors to the children and the school,”
Boening said. “Anything we can do
to help out we will.”

D’Amelio said the proceeds from
the concert will go to educational pro-
grams at the school, and supplies for
the children. She also said the school
was able to improve the new play-
ground with the money given them
by W&L. She said that the construc-

Montessori School adjusts to

new neighbors ’ construction
W&L “building bridges” with school through music festival

tion has not bothered the children
as much as was anticipated.

“They (the kids) actually love it,"
she said. “They can name all the
different machines; the bulldozers,
the frontloaders. . .”

In its ﬁfth year, the Montessori
School for Children is for preschool
children ages 2-6. Operating from 8:20
am. to 3 p.m. everyday, D’Amelio says
that the burden of the construction
has mostly fallen on the parents of
the school’s children.

“With all the machinery it makes
it difﬁcult for parents to get in and
out of here,” D’Amelio said. “Our
driveway and parking lot have been
messed up by the construction.”

She said that overall, the con-
struction may be annoying, but she
understands the necessity.

“The construction has made the
scenery a little less pretty, and has
been very inconvenient for us in
having to move our playground
and have our parking lot redone;
but, in the long run I don’t foresee
the sorority houses being a prob-
lem for our school. It’sjust the con-
struction that is annoying.”

photo by David Hanson/Assistant Photo Editoi

LOCAL STAR: Leslie Tucker entertains the crowd gathered at the Motessori Music Festival.

LAST GAME OF THE SEASON: Sophomore Lee Charbonet and seniors Alex McManimen, Chris
Stakem and Russell Wrenn chat on the ﬁeld following the General’s 40-13 win over Swarthmore.

The Ruse’s “tremendous year”

SEE ‘VMI’ ON PAGE 2

Owners close down local cafe with sense of accomplishment

By Heather McDonald

S TA FF WRITER

After almost two weeks of ques-
tions, answers have finally been
found as to why The Ruse coffee-
house closed down.

Rich Walter, one of the two cre-
ators and owners of The Ruse, ex-
plained what happened. He and co-
owner Dow Harris both felt that be-
cause they wanted to pursue other
goals, it was time to close down the
business.

“It was deﬁnitely the right deci-
sion. Both Dow [Harris] and I were
comfortable with this. We wanted to
close [The Rusel while it was a suc-
cess,” Walter said. Walter is apply-
ing to graduate school for the upcom-
ing fall term.

Walter said that he and Dow were
extremely proud of the way The Ruse
achieved its goals.

“It was an outrageous success,”
Walter said. “We saw it from start to
finish, and we accomplished more
than we could have ever dreamed. It
was great for us to close the book on
that feeling.”

Harris and Walter created the Ruse
with the intention of bringing college
students and Lexington residents to-
gether in an atmosphere that encour-
aged creativity and expression. Walter
said that he and Harris decided to in-
corporate the play into The Ruse’s
closing two weeks ago. They decided
it was an appropriate way to an-
nounce the end of the business.

“It was a year of Lexington com-
ing to us,” Walter said.

Now that The Ruse is shut down,
the Jordan House, where The Ruse
was located, is in a state of transi-
tion. Valerie Alessi is the owner of
the Jordan House and president of
the Jordan House Foundation. Alessi

said she was given no warning that
The Ruse was closing, although she
was there the night ofthe play. ,

“It was a complete and perfect
ruse,” Alessi said. She said she was
not leasing out the space to Walter
and Harris, but that they had an
agreement for The Ruse to occupy
the space. The Jordan House Foun-
dation also cooperated with The Ruse
on several artistic and musical
projects. She said that the building

will now be turned into a center for
ﬁne arts in Lexington, which was the
original plan before Walter and Har-
ris approached her with the idea for a
coffee shop.

“The building will remain 2. vital part
of Lexington,” Walter said. “By mov-
ing out, we’re making room for the
community. The Ruse was only one
component of the Jordan House.”

Walter says he is unsure if any-
thing similar to The Ruse will open
up right away.

“Anything can happen, but it’s a
huge undertaking,” Walter said. “We
were mnning a business.”

Although both Walter and Harris
will be pursuing other dreams, Walter

believes the two succeeded in creat-
ing a special environment.

“We appreciate the people who
made it what it was, who made it tick,”
Walter said.

The only late-night coffee shop in
town closed its doors on Oct. 31, af-
ter being in business for only one
year. No one knew about Walter and
Harris’s decision to close shop that
night. Walter said he has no regrets.

“It was a tremendous year.”

OPINION:

W&LIFE:

SPORTS:

LAST WORD:

photo by David HzInson’Assistant Photo Editor
BREAKING RECORDS: Freshman Chris

Sullivan scrambles during W&L’s
season finale. See story on page 5.

Clip: King-tum lﬂlri
November 15, 1999

Activities fee increase?

STDs and W&L-students

Generals roll Tide

Finding your dream job?

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

PAGE 5

PAGE 6

 

 

PAGE 2

J Nat: trmg-mm pm

NOVEMBER 15, 1999

‘VMI’ from page I

asked to remain anonymous for fear of possible reper-
cussions.

“I have no doubt there was an order to impress upon
Francis the importance of following the rules and not
getting his fellow rats in trouble,” said the junior. “The
problem is that they took the order too far and beat the
poor kid.”

Following the order they had received, the five rats
went to Francis’ room early Friday morning wearing masks,
and attacked Francis. VMI spokesman Chuck Steenburgh
said that the five rats, “restrained [Francis] and proceeded
to strike him about the head and shoulders. It drew some
blood. He was taken to our infirmary and treated.”

The anonymous second classman said that the attack
was the unfortunate result ofa campus policy of“polic—
ing one’s own.” Cadets are encouraged to take care of
individual problems among themselves, without involv-
ing the administration. The source said that ifa cadet is
not up to the standards of his peers, the student’s fellow
cadets are encouraged to bring that person in line. This
attack was unique in its brutality, however.

“It has always been used as a wake-up call to the
person, but with no physical violence done to them,”
said the junior. “A cadet may be wrapped up in their
mattress and left naked in the shower all night, but never
beaten. There may be a little damage done to their pride,
but we don't beat them. Violence like that is simply not
tolerated.”

Steenburgh agreed, saying cadets sometimes have “im-
promptu wrestling matches,” but that this situation was
different.

“This is not a common occurrence. .
bloodstains in the room," Steenburgh said.

Student reaction to the attack has been one of sur-
prise and disgust. The second classman said that he and
his fellow cadets were mortified when they heard ofthe
incident.

“Everyone was completely shocked," said the source.
“We encourage them to take care oftheir problems, but
none ofus would ever advocate physically harming some-
one. Just because this is a military school doesn't give
anyone an excuse for violence.”

The second classman also said that the overwhelming
campus opinion was in agreement with the dismissal of
the students.

“What they did was completely wrong, and they need
to be punished for it,” said the cadet. “Ifthis happened in
the real world they would be injail. They are lucky noth-
ing more is being done to them.”

Since the attack, Francis has been recovering, and is
expected to return to active participation in daily activi-
ties within the next couple ofweeks. Meanwhile, the rest
ofthe school is attempting to move on, said the second
classman.

’ “We are trying to put this ‘behind .us.at this point. It
was an awful thing to have happen, but we must learn
from this and not let it happen again. It doesn't follow
with what we are trying to instill in our graduates.”

. there were

‘BOWLING’ from page 1

Fraternities take freshmen they’re rushing to the lanes
on Thursday night as well. The IFC doesn’t allow fresh-
men in fraternity houses on Thursday nights after 8 p.m.,
so a trip to the lanes provides an alternative rush activity.

“It’s a good way to get to know guys outside the pres-
sures ofthe [fraternity] house,” Price, Kappa Sigma’s rush
chairman, said.

“It’s a rush tool if the house chooses to use it like
that,” senior Lee Holland said.

The mix of fraternities at the Lanes on Thursday night
is also surprising. Members of different fraternities can
be seen talking with each other and playing games to-
gether.

“Fraternities come out together, but everyone’s very
cordial while they’re here,” Jancaitis said. “There’s no
bad blood out on the bowling alleys.”

Students compete with varying levels ofability. Some
can be seen bowling gutter ball after gutter ball, but oth-
ers claim to be pretty good.

“After a legendary 194 this summer I average about
120 a game,” Price said. “Some might call it a fluke but I
think it’s the better bowler inside ofme trying to get out.”

Assistant Manager Jollay has noticed the students’
bowling styles as well.

“They’re mostlyjust beginners, but they come out and
have a good time and that’s what it’s all about anyway.”

NEW YORK
STYLE CRUST

3"

PIZZA, SUBS, PASTA, CALZONES,
SALADS, BEER ON PREMISES

plzZA

Under New
Management!

1213 N. Lee Hwy Next to Wal-Mart

463-3399

:47 /IV or .5‘?
MK! our 

      
 

Naturally, the courfztry-*’s prem.ier~e ‘Eeaoie’z:‘°s.h§p sclri.oe::5l

offers only  finest classrooms.

}i‘<‘)r'vI'i'i 1?./)1

 Hymg Flu. ,,.,,u](]>1-nu (»\‘{)('CI_Il‘(Dlll lite it'orlrl',v ltyuglirsl grrirluulv \(‘l1rm]/'r':‘LlH\‘ 3’ l'1'o'r'cI:cr*(‘ In

 turn college men and Iranian mlo [l’(I(I[’l'.\. l’c<:plr ii”/‘I41t'I)mI71(ln(lI'L‘\[)(’t‘l. /min l(Illll].\ trim . O
 cl.‘ tlitillrrigt’. Lilcc Llirc(lirm.»' lo the crirtiptrx‘? Ca/l I-.\‘mI-MARI N 1- S. Or rzsil ll.\ ul 

l}»u'd be siirpmml at you can learn ll'l lllt’ ;rmul.~. The Few. The Proud.

E-mail General Notes to (A
In

 

National Smoke-Out Day

According to the American Cancer Society, approxi-
mately 32 million smokers (out of 47 million current smok-
ers) want to quit smoking completely. This Thursday stu-
dents and staffwill have the opportunity to participate in
the National Smoke-Out Day. National Smoke-Out Day,
sponsored by The American Cancer Society and LIFE,
will promote awareness about how to quit smoking and
other related information.

The American Cancer Society suggests that, “Ifyou're
a smoker, decide that on Nov. 18th you will put your ciga-
rettes down for good. Quitting won’t be easy, but by
preparation, determination, and some assistance, it can
be done.” LIFE will provide some things which make it
easier to quit. You can pick up a Quit Kit, ﬁlled with
things to help you through the first few days, and infor-
mation about the stages of quitting along with reasons
why to quit. Stop by the table outside ofthe Co-op from
11:30 to 1pm onNov. l8.

Guillory wins top honor in Moot Court

The Washington and Lee University School of Law
hosted the 20th annual John W. Davis Moot Court Com-
petition on Nov. II in Sydney Lewis Hall, and the top
winner was Anne Guillory, a second-year student.

Federal appeals court judges Richard S. Arnold (Eighth
Circuit), Dolores K. Sloviter (Third Circuit) and H. Emory
Widener Jr. '53L (Fourth Circuit) heard oral arguments
from four finalists in a case arguing the constitutionality
ofthe Violence Against Women Act. Thejudges named
Guillory as the best oralist and second-year student David
DuBose was named the runner—up.

“It’s customary in these situations to say that the ad-
vocates we heard were better than the normal lawyers we
hear in regular court,” said Arnold after the competition.
“On this occasion it's not only customary, it’s true.”
Arnold also talked about the importance of oral argu-
ments in court. “The oral argument is a professional con-
versation and it's your last chance to talk sense to the
people who will decide the case.”

Students also submitted briefs on the case. A law fac-
ulty committee cited Camille Turner, a second-year stu-
dent from Roanoke for the best brief. Second—year stu-
dent Kent Basson from Attalla, Ala., was the runner-up
in that competition.

The Moot Court Competition is named after John W.
Davis, an 1892 graduate of W&L, who also earned his
law degree from W&L in 1895, and later taught in the law

school.‘ ‘C ’ '

Guild presents Budapest Strings

The Concert Guild Series at Washington and Lee pre-
sents the Budapest Strings, with flutist Paula Robinson,
on Tuesday, Nov. 16 at 8 p.m. in the Lenfest Center.

The concert includes lntroduzione, Aria e Presto, by
Marcello, Diveitimento for Strings by Bartok and Mozart's
Eine kleine Nachtmusik, K. 525. Robinson joins the en-
semble for Hungarian Pastorale Fantasy, Opus 26, by Dop-
pler and Ginastera's Impresiones de la Puna.

The Budapest Strings began its career as a septet
formed by seniors at the Franz Liszt Music Academy. From
this is developed into a 16-string ensemble playing the
established orchestra repertoire, with a particular empha-
sis on the works oftheir countrymen, such as Weiner and
Bartok. Now occupying a prestigious position in the in-
ternational world of music, the Budapest Strings tours
internationally and has recorded three CD5, including one
devoted entirely to works by English and American com-
posers.

Robinson, dubbed the First Lady of the Flute, is re-
nowned for bringing pure intonation, beautifully varied
tone and extraordinary technical mastery to a diverse rep-
ertoire. She studied with Julius Baker at The Julliard School
and at the age of 20 was invited by Leonard Bernstein to
be the guset soloist with the New York Philhannonic. Her
releases include Wings of the Morning, ﬂute transcrip-
tions of six Bach organ sonatas, By the Old Pine Tree:
Flute Music by Stephen Foster and Sidney Lanier and a
Greig/Anderson CD with pianist Samuel Saunders. As well
as performing all over the world, Robinson has appeared
on CBS Sunday Morning, Live from Lincoln Center and
Christmas at the Kennedy Center. She plays a Brannen—
Cooper ﬂute.

For ticket information call the Lenfest Box Office at
463-8000.

Campaign ﬁnance lecture topic

Arthur Gunlicks, professor of political science at the
University of Richmond, will give a public lecture on
Wednesday, Nov. 17 entitled “The Campaign Finance Di-
lemma: German Lessons for the United States” at 7:30 p.m.
in Northen Auditorium at Washington and Lee University's
Leyburn Library. This is the third in a series of European
Politics Lectures sponsored by the department of politics
at Washington and Lee.

Gunlicks is the author of numerous books and articles
on Federalism, German politics, European politics and cam-
paign finance. His most recent publications include _Com-
parative Party and Campaign Finance in North America
and Western Europe (Westview Press, 1992) and a chap-
ter entitled “Fifty Years of German Federalism” in Ger-
many at Fifty (MacMillan Press, 1999). In addition, Gunlicks
has traveled and taught extensively in Germany is the re-
cipient of numerous grants including two Fulbrights. He
is currently president of the Virginia Conference of Politi-
ca”l'”Scientists. A‘  ’ A‘

 

Q/wecae ’
540 463-6858

Two and a half years ago, Franco’s brought
you the best Italian cuisine in the area.
Now Franco’s brings you the best in
gourmet pizza.

Private room available for any special
occasion, with 20-200 capacity. Callus
with your needs and we'll design a
special menu for your function.

2.

 

bknmNmERl5,1999

Elie {Ring-tum lﬁlii

PINION

PAGE3

EC referendum: Should activities fee be increased?

To satisfy budget requests, EC wants increased Student Activity Fee

The Executive Committee faced a daunting task during
its budget allocations this fall. A little background is in or-
der. The Student Activity Fee was set at $175 for the 1998-99
school year. This amount represented a one-year $20 in-
crease from the year before, created to fund the 250th Celebra-
tion activities. The EC had roughly $286,000 to allocate last
year with $33,000
of this going to
the 250th leaving
$253,000 to allo-
cate to 35 student
organizations.
Last year the EC

 ’i:i"“*«;§:g]oriatlian McCrary,

 -:»“" EC Vice President

received budget requests totaling $358,000.

This year the EC received Student Activity Fees of $ 1 55
per student, totaling $271,000. This amount was to be allo-
cated between the 37 organizations that submitted budget
requests including a substantial request from the Mock
Convention. The total amount requested by these organi-
zations came to roughly $532,000, twice the amount we had
available to allocate. Because of this great disparity, we had
to make some extremely tough decisions, and several wor-
thy organizations were either cut completely or had their
organizations partially funded. Furthermore, several organi-
zations who missed the budget hearings have submitted pro-
posals for EC funding, and their requests have not yet been
addressed.

Recognizing the diﬁiculty we had due to limited funds, the —

EC decided to hold a student body referendum on the issue of
raising the Student Activity Fee for next year. The pur-
poses of this referendum are to gauge student receptive-
ness to an increase in the Student Activity Fee, and, should
the reception be positive, to get an idea about an accept-
able amount.

While I will not reap the benefits of any increase in the
Student Activity Fee, I fully support an increase. Not only
would an increase make the budget process easier for the
members of next year’s EC, but it would alsopermit adequate
funding for the worthy organizations that are being created
each year on campus.

A college education is about more than simple academics.
College is a time to explore other interests and develop leader-
ship skills. W&L has always prided itself on producing so-
cially responsible, well-rounded graduates. Naturally, many
organizations require money to work. A lack of adequate
funds should not be the basis of the restriction of these activi-
ties. It was disappointing to the EC not to be able to fund a
group as worthy as LIFE, and I am sure it was a disappoint-
ment to the members of that organization. Also, groups such
as the SAB and Contact which have received substantial fund-
ing in the past had their allocations reduced this year out of
necessity. The bands and speakers the students get to see
this year could be of lesser renown for this reason.

A statistical analysis done by EC member John Comly
showed that the average Student Activity Fee of six East
Coast liberal arts colleges was $21 I per student. While an
increase to this average would be substantial, I feel the
beneﬁts would far outweigh the cost. By adding even $40 per
student to the Student Activity Fee, the EC would have around
$80,000 over this year’s budget to allocate next year. Outreach
into the community would thrive, ourjoumals would be ﬁrst
rate, the club sports teams could go full force, and we could
get P-Funk back on campus.

Consider also that this money will come from most of
your parents’ pockets. If they balk at this increase, which is
unlikely in light of the overall cost of school, simply explain
that the money goes to develop you as a complete person. No
parent will object to that.

 
   
    

M

LADIES

. Q

I  _l-l'ilS \‘3 {V1,
Tm: RE ARE cix8REt\7I1—\

[5 someiwaims izznsseca
ourm THE Es4=rm2ccM

T%i1%kJ1JTﬁ$LA$KE$
pom BE\t\\\lD You
\§ouiL Mtssioxwizs Tb
ESCL7KT'TttC+4  .
ﬁ,qcjJ;TQ(1/lR 
‘t't'C\.\SE.31\i no MINUTES.
epoo Lticié.’ #

Z45/W/it

Tilt: iﬁtngi-tum 

Polly Doig
Hollister Hovey
Michael Crittenden
Stephanie Bianco
Ginger Phillips
Elianna Marziani
Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin
Heather McDonald
Emily Barnes

Executive Editor
Associate Editor
News Editor
Opinions Editor
W&Li'fe Editors

Sports Editor
Last Word Editor
Copy Editor
Photo Editor

Assistant Photo Editors Lisa Lin
David Hanson
Layout Editor Neal Willetts
Circulation Director Leo Brown

Advertising Director Frances Groberg

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reflect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington. VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://w1u.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

if ’:

 , r’ uote of the Week:

i
~.

(K

I want to go ﬁnd my date
so I can kill him.

—- Anonymous junior girl

)2

at sorority formal

Students pay enough; endowment should cough the money up

The Executive Committee is holding a student body
referendum next week in order to gauge student recep-
tiveness on raising the Student Activities Fee. The EC’s
reasoning behind the proposed change is that there is
no longer enough money for them to provide for the bud-
get needs ofthe 37 campus organizations. This year the
Executive Committee received budget proposals that
equaled twice the amount that they had received from
the current Student Activities Fee of$l 55.

The members of the Executive Committee want to raise
the activity fee in order to make it easier for them to do
the budgeting process. I agree that more money would
be great, and full funding for all ofthe programs on cam-
pus would make for an ideal situation. However, I also
believe that asking the students to fund this is not fair to
us.

We already pay enough money to go to school here,
to not have too pay even more. Tuition already is rising
from year to year, the student activity fee doesn’t need
to follow suit. Maybe it is easy for members ofthe EC to
tack on charges to their yearly college costs because
mommy and daddy fund whatever their kiddies want.

For some people this is just not the case, however.
My parents struggle to get my brother and I both through
school; taking out loans, cutting back on vacations, and
requiring that I retain my work study job as well as work
in the dining hall most ofthe year. I know thatl am not
the only student who is in this same position. The obvi-
ous response to this argument is that this is the reason for
having a student referendum. A majority of students vot-
ing for one or the other is the democratic answer. Unfortu-
nately, a majority of students voting to approve a raise
would be making a decision for those students who aren’t
able afford a raise and are already strapped for cash. I

know a majority of students at this school probably will
vote for the raise because a littl extra cost doesn’t show up
as anything major on daddy’s bills. Hell, what’s a twenty
dollar raise in the student activities fee, when you are buy-
ing junior a brand new SUV. There are some people who
would be adversely effected by this because it would make
a difference to. Should other students have the power of
effecting the pocket book of another student?

It seems to me that somewhere in that gigantic endow-
ment that this school has, that there is some money that
could be used for increasing the budget the Executive
Committee has to work with. lfwe can give the Williams
Investment Society a cool million to play with on the stock
market, than we can give the student activities budget
$100,000 to make theirjob a little easier. Not that I agree
with that being a justification for giving the Executive
Committee more money. The whole concept of budgeting
is to decide what portion ofa limited sum ofmoney goes
to which organization.

Yes, it would be great if every organization got the
money it asked for, but that is not the case. The EC is
responsible for deciding who gets the money from the
student activities budget. This is their job. Why should
the rest of us bear the monetary brunt because the EC
doesn’t want to make some groups feel under appreci-
ated?

Thus, either the EC or the W&L endowment should
suck it up and cough up the money necessary to make
things run as smoothly as they’d like. Students are al-
ready doing their share. It’s either that, or it’s time to im-
pose a little glimmer of reality on W&L Land, and organi-
zations will simply have to accept the fact that not every-
body gets what they want all the time. Think about that
when you go to vote next week, it will make a difference.

1,001 things that irritate
me: The first installment

What is the newspaper for other than to force your
opinion on other people and complain about national cri-
ses? Thus, I figured, why not share my whims and whines
with the world in the hopes of finding some nodding heads
to give me piece of mind that I am not the only fussy
member of humanity. But what sort of protestations does
everyone take part in at W&L? Something in which we
can all feel each other’s pain? Well. I have discovered the
answer and that is the garbage man. '

First of all, what sicko insomniac thought that the best
time of day to collect the trash was at 6:15 a.m. That is
quite possibly the worst hour of the day. When you are

woken at that
< e ‘:‘?"?"'— time of dawn it

 Ungrateful Ninja ,5 too late ,0

fl - L
Ami;  Katy Harding 701 take pleasure in
 —:———-—-?- the factthat you
> have at least one
sleep cycle left to dream and way too early to be apprecia-
tive ofthe wake up call.

It’s that hour when you unpleasantly come to the con-
clusion that you have to be in class in two and half hours
and now thanks to garbage man, you have about an hour
to retreat back into deep sleep and dream before you really
do have to get up.

From a logical stand point I for one would assume
that the middle of the day would be the wise hour to
schedule pick-up. All the little kiddies are in school, all
the adults are locked in their offices (let’s not argue
about the state of local Lexington adults) and any
threatening dogs are happily secured in their homes
away from anyjuicy garbage man thighs. I suppose of
course, that that would be way too easy and conve-
nient for the rest ofthe town.

The following I direct at the person who opted to
place the dumpsters within earshot of every single dorm
room on campus so that no matter where you reside
you will hear the oh-so subtle garbage men laughing
(Why? It’s 6 a.m. and we shall never know) and cursing at
the content of their pick-up.

What is extra fun is when there is something lodged
inexplicably in the bottom of the garbage and rather than
respect every student’s hard earned right to sleep, they
opt instead to slam the dumpster into the truck over and
over and over...Well, you get the picture. There is no
doubt if you go to W&L that you’ve heard them.

What’s more, don’t even presume, dear reader, that once
you leave campus you are free from the audible torture you
experienced while on campus.

I live off campus and still have the pleasure of hearing
the garbage truck pull up outside my window at 6 a.m., the
men get out and curse, “they don’t actually expect us to
pick up this sh**!” All followed by the mumbled agree-
ment of the rest of the garbage men.

Yet, we all must accept that as much as we may lament
about the din of the garbage men and their trucks, they
perform a vital function for the students. If it weren’t
for them, other than the obvious build up of beer cans
and d-hall food, you would never wake up from the
hang-over slumber. For the garbage man has no snooze
button.

You arrive at W&L your freshman year and happily
move into your dorm room, which of course could be
nicer, but hey you have a single and a sink in your room.
The week of orientation you return to your room in the
wee hours of the morning so you are unaware and ad-
mittedly shocked when the clamor apparently begins

your first
{{

week of
“Wes” The garbage man has
no snooze button.

It starts
off slowly
as a kind of
buzzing off 
in the dis-
tant recesses of your unconscious mind as you dream away.
But as the oh-so smooth truck inches closer to the well-
placed dumpsters situated so that every room on campus
is within earshot of the compactors that come to haul away
the trash, your rest is slowly interrupted. Then the din is
full-blown and your beauty rest is completely hopeless
when the truck stops directly outside and starts its moan-
mg

Why on earth is it necessary to have the dumpsters
located right next the windows. As we have already estab-
lished, garbage trucks are not the most subtle vehicles on
this planet and regardless of where you are you are going
to hear them. And, I respect garbage men. It’s a tough but
vital position in our society and they actually don’t make
bad money considering they collect what roaches crave.
But, I have to tell you, garbage men are certainly not the
most discreet people on the face of this earth.

 

 

 

“I’m sad. I expected it to catch on. I
always enjoyed it everytime I went.”
' -Ashley Anderson ’0l

“No coffee after 5pm !”

“What’s The Ruse?”
-Anna Parris ’00

-Jason Ward '01

 

“I’m gonna miss the music.”
-John Comly ’0l

 

 

PAGE 4

W&

Campus STDs: It can happen to you

By Eliarma Marziani
F5/1 TURES EDITOR

“Everyboaﬂ/s doing it. " Not really.

A But for those college students who are

sexually active, there are many serious
risks involved. One of the more ﬁ'ighten-
ing risks is as simple as three letters: STD.

“Over the past ﬁve years, there has
been an increase in total STD-related vis-
its [to the inﬁrmary],” said Dr. Jane
Horton, Washington and Lee’ s Director
of Health Services, speaking of the in-

' creasing problem of STDs on campus.

STDS, or sexually transmitted dis-
eases, are infections of the genital tis-
sue that spread by contact with infected
skin or body ﬂuids such as blood, urine,
and other secretions. STDs can have
painful and irritating symptoms and can

. result in numerous health problems and

permanent side effects, including infer-

_ tility, cervical cancer, and higher
chances of contracting HIV.

One in ﬁve Americans contracts an
STD. The Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention estimates that there are
currently 55 million Americans with
STDs, and that there are 15 million new
cases a year. Almost 10 percent of
young adults have either chlamydia or
HPV (human papillomavirus), accord-
ing to a study from the American Col-
lege Health Association. With STDs
alive and well, and threatening their vic-
tims’ lives and wellness, people need to

~ be infonned.

At W&L last year, there were 64
STD-related visits (including testing
and treatments) to the health center,
along with 68 HIV tests. So far this year,
there have been 16 STD-related visits
and 18 HIV tests.

Horton said that every week stu-
dents come in for STD testing. “It’s good
in that it shows more awareness, but it
also means people have been engaging
in unsafe sex,” she said. “They do some-
thing unsafe, get scared, thenicome in
and get tested.”

She said that alcohol plays a big part
in the spread of STDS. “There are meth-
ods that can give some protection. But
with hook—ups. . .”

National research has shown that the
mixture of alcohol and sexual activity is
closely linked to unplanned pregnancy,
date rape, and the spread of STDs.

There are two main divisions of STDs:
bacterial and viral infections.

Bacterial infections are curable, as
long as they are caught early enough.
The most common bacterial infections
are chlamydia, gonorrhea, and syphilis.

Chlamydia is the most prevalent bac-
terial infection in the United States and
also the most common bacterial STD
on the W&L campus. It is contracted
by contact of bodily ﬂuids of the va-
gina, penis, or anus and affects the geni-
tal and urinary tracts.

“Chlamydia is a big concern, because
it can be silent —— someone could be a
carrier without having any symptoms
and transmit the infection to his partner
without knowing it,” said Dr. Horton.

Some of the possible effects of
chlamydia include lower abdominal or
urinary pain, infertility in women, and
swelling and pain of the testicles in men.

Viral infections are the most fright-
ening anddangerous STDs to contract,
because although their symptoms can
be treated by medication, there is no
way to get rid of thrne permanently.

Human papillomavirus, more com-
monly known as HPV, is a very common
STD which causes genital warts. Dr.
Horton explained, “HPV is the most com-
mon STD that we see on our campus and
the fastest growing STD on campus.”

One reason for this is that HPV is eas-
ily transmitted without sexual intercourse
by skin-to—skirr Contact with the infected
area and that it can also be silent. HPV
causes waits on the genitals and anus of
both men and women, as well as warts
and pre-cancerous lesions on the cervix
of women. While these are common
symptoms of HPV, a person may be a

carrier without the symptoms. Warts
caused by HPV are treatable but the in-
fection itself is incurable.

Herpes is a viral infection that has
two strains. Type one causes fever blis-
ters on the lips. Type two causes geni-
tal herpes. More than half the popula-
tion has some kind of herpes, an infec-
tion that stays with a person for life.
While it might be donnant, it is still trans-

missible and never ﬁilly curable. Either

type of herpes can cause the other type.

(C

There has been
an increase in
STD-related
visits to the
infirmary.”

— Dr. Jane Horton

77

Dr. Horton explained that if a couple is
engaged in oral sex, one partner could
have had fever blisters years before and
no outbreaks since, but could still trans-
mit the infection and cause genital her-
pes in his partner. Herpes is transmit-
ted by skin-to-skin contact. There is
medication that can decrease the fre-
quency of outbreaks, but this treatment
does not make an infected person non-
contagious, nor does it ever totally rid
him of the infection.

HIV, or Human Irrrrnunodeﬁciency Vi-
ms, is one of the most well-known vi-
ruses. HIV is the virus that causes AIDS,
a fatal disease for which no cure exists.
HIV is spread through body ﬂuids and
having another type of STD can increase
the risk of contracting HIV.

Dr. Horton cited one of the most com-
mon misconceptions: “Someone will oorne
in to me and say, ‘It’s impossible for me to
have an STD, I haven’t had sex.’”

COMEDY IN Boor CAMP?! Peter Duvall ’0l, Blair Mitchell ’0l, Keith Rauch ’00 and
Ryan Truax ’01 rehearse for the upcoming production of Neil Simon’s Tony Award-
winning comedy, “Biloxi Blues.” Senior Holly Estes will direct this comical master-
piece about 18-year-old Eugene Morriss Jerome, who learns many life-long lessons
while in a World War II boot camp. The play opens in the Johnson Theatre at 8p.m.
on Dec. 3. Tickets are available from the Lenfest box ofﬁce at 463-8000.

 

t

Photo Courtesy of Susan Wagner

   

 

featuring Paula Robison, ﬂutist.Keller
Theatre, Lenfest Center.

U  i    .  . 8:00 p.m. Lecture. “Doing our Duty as BestWe
. May: Three Confederate Women Dur-
ing War,” Mary A. DeCredico, pro-
fessor of history, United States Na-
val Academy. Northen Auditorium.
9:00 p.m. “The Whole Shebangf’ Directed by V
Kathie Soroka ‘O 1. Science Addition.
Wednesday, November 17
7:00 p.m. Politics Filrnfest. “2001 : A Space Od-
V yssey.” Room 221, Williams School.
Tuesday’ November. 16 7:00 p.m. lsectu:le.C‘i‘The aCI21aLr:;S):1(i)g‘r: ::r:r1r‘r:e Di-
_ . . . . . emm : erm
:_'3000‘ m TH::nkSgwmg dmnen Evans Dmmg United States,” Pro_f. Art Gunlicks,
' p' ' ' University of Richmond. Room 327,
5'30 p m Artists‘ Talk and Reception “Ancient Williams School‘
Forests and City Trees,” an exhibit ,
by artist Prilla Smith Brackett, opens. Friday. N°Vember 19
6:00 p.m. Thanksgiving Break begins after
7 :00 p.m. Politics Filmfest. “2001: A Space Od- classes —— classes resume Monday.
yssey.” Room 221, Williams School N0V6mb€F 2931-
8:00 p.m. Concert Guild. “Budapest Strings” The  wishes ifs readers

a happy Thanksgiving holiday.

She said this information is inaccu-
rate. Penetration is not necessary for
the transmittal of many very dangerous
STDs. Anyone who has been in a situ-
ation in which he might have been in-
fected should be tested.

The costs for tests in the Student
Health Center range from $15 to $20. Dr.
Horton stressed that if these costs
present an insunnountable burden, cost
should not be a reason to not get tested.
The health center is always willing to
work with students for the sake of their
health. The tests are done conﬁdentially,
between the doctor and student alone.
Anyone with questions should contact
Dr. Horton at 462-840 1.

While testing is important in the early
detection and treatment of an STD, it is
best to do everything possible to avoid
contracting an infection in the first place.
Abstinence is the only absolute protec-
tion from STDs. W&L students who
choose to be sexually active must keep
themselves infonned of STD risks, symp-
toms and treatments. If a couple decides
to have sex, honesty between partners
and protection during sex is a must. And
while condoms do reduce the risk of
transmission and should always be used
if a couple decides to engage in any kind
of sexual activity, they do not completely
protect against STDs transmitted by
skin-to-skin contact.

        

Council Tl'iIl‘(’l ,
Student Travel
from A to Z

(‘L

 
    

London 130
Paris 178
Barcelona 217
Amsterdam 196

   
    

From Washington C
each way based on a rt
purchase. Fares do not
include taxes, are
valid for departures
in November and are
subject to change.

Restrictions apply.

1-800-ZCOUNCIL

  

- Finance

‘ @112 itttng-tum {ﬂirt

IF E

Learn the fundamentals of:
° Accounting - Marketing

° Organizational Behavior

0 Hands-on market & financial research

0 Business related computer applications

° Effective communication & presentation skills
- Prepare for the corporate recruiting process

By Max Smith

STAFF WRITER

Freslnnan Trey Packard is a cosmo-
politan man. Looking to broaden his ho-
rizons both socially and academically, last
year Packard opted to postpone his
freshman year at W&L and attend a
high school in England for the aca-
demic year.

Packard attended Sutton Va-
lence School in a small village south-
east of London. He took courses in
economics, Spanish, and English lit-
erature. The biggest part ofhis edu-
cation, however, came outside of
the classroom.

“Academically I learned some
stuff,” Packard said. “But I think I
learned a lot more socially.”

 

NOVEMBER 15, 1999

Signature Student
yrey yacfarof ’03

talk to one of his parents each week.
But Packard really could not escape
English culture for the eight months
he was there.

“It’s just an experience when you
have to go through a culture shock that

Packard was the only Ameri-
can out of 400 pupils.

“The ﬁrst time I walked into the
school, the ﬁrst word that blared into
my head was regret,” Packard said.
“I thought, I shouldn’t have done
this. I don’t belong.”

But Packard’s fears proved to be
unfounded, and he soon got along
well with his classmates. He started
playing pool and going to pubs with
them, and he discovered that most
were just curious about the States.

Packard still had to jump other cul-
tural hurdles as he adapted to life in En-
gland. Differences in accents and vo-
cabulary constantly challenged Packard.

“It’s one thing if you’re in France and
someone’s talking to you, but when
someone’s speaking English and you
don’tunderstand them, it’s so scary,” he
said. “[It’s] a serious culture shock.”

Packard thinks his tolerant sense
of humor really saved him during the
academic year.

“In England I was the center of atten-
tion and that also meant being the center
of the jokes,” Packard said. “I had to
laugh at myself. Otherwise what are you
going to do, break down and cry?”

Growing a thick skin and the con-
ﬁdence necessary to survive in a new
culture was a daily task for Packard.
He e-mailed his friends and would

Photo by Lisa Lin/Assistant Photo Editor

lasts that long,” Packard said. “lt’s really
[about] coping. You can’t escape some-
where and go into a comer and hang out
with a bunch of Americans and watch
BeverlyHi1ls90210.”

Now Packard begins his freshman
year at W&L. Adapting to the com-
plete W&L environment is a lot easier
for Packard after England.

“In England, I was the only one
new to the environment,” Packard
said. “W&L students are more like
me. The freshmen are all going
through the same experience.”

Packard appreciates the variety in
the W&L curriculum alter the lack of
choice in England. He also looks for-
ward to starting classes with the same
level of knowledge as his classmates.

Packard does not think his aca-
demic year abroad affected the im-
pact of his ﬁrst year at W&L.

“Just because I [went to England]
doesn’t make my freshman year not
as valuable,” Packard said. “It’s still
just as genuine as anyone else’s.”

Packard predicts things will only
get better next year. “I also have the
conﬁdence of knowing that I’m go-
ing to be the most popular sopho-
more next year . . . being 21 on th
first day of school.” ‘

If you are a non-business major and you want to improve your marketability,

The Haas School of Business
at the University of California Berkeley
Summer BASE Program IS FORYOU!

July 5 - August I I, 2000

 

Sophomores, Juniors, and Seniors will beneﬁt from this rigorous, six-week
summer curriculum that will include lectures, case studies, company visits,
guest speakers and student presentations.

For more information, visit our website at:
haas.berkeley.edulUndergradIbase.html
or contact us via email at: BASE@haas.berkeley.edu

 

3 W. Nelson St.

540-464-1501

Lexington, VA 24450

 

“We’re more than just hot dogs; we also serve fresh bagels,
‘International Wrapps’ and high protein smoothie.”

Mon. - Thurs. 8:00a.m. -. 7:00p.m.

Fri. — 8:00a.m. - 9:00p.m.

Sat. -1l:00a.m. - 9:00p.m.

L

 

 

 

NOVEMBER 15, 1999

 RT s

PAGE 5

W&L destroys Swarthmore n ﬁlae of nes’ season

By Mike Weil

S TA FF WRITER

Christian Batcheller set the ODAC
record for career passing yards with
6,130 and Chris Sullivan had a career
high in rushing yards with 163 yards as
the Generals destroyed a horrific
Swarthmore squad 40- 1 3.

Leading 7-0 with 1:07 to go in the
ﬁrst quarter, W&L would triple its lead
by scoring two of their most thrilling
touchdowns of the season.

Sullivan took a hand-off from his own
six yard line and scampered 94 yards to
the endzone for the longest touchdown
run in General history.

Batcheller then scored on a 19-yard
touchdown reception from freshman
successor Robert Littlehale for a 21-0
advantage with 12:08 to play in the ﬁrst
half. The lead would increase to 28-0
after Sullivan again reached the
endzone, this time from four yards out.

The drubbing would continue in the
second half after a pair of General ﬁeld
goals heightened the lead to 34. W&L
would ﬁnish its scoring with 7:33 to go
in the fourth quarter when freshman
running back Dvllan Rankin charged in
from three yards out to give the Gener-
als 40 points on the day.

This drive showed a glimpse of the
future as Littlehale was exceptional in
converting two fourth downs on the way
to paydirt.

Swarthmore added two meaningless
touchdowns in the second half to make
the ﬁnal score 40-13.

Senior wideout J .T. Malatesta also
had a standout day, hauling in 1 1 passes
for 131 yards, breaking Tony Peny’s
(’73-’76) school record for receptions

with 155. It appeared obvious that the
W&L game plan included Malatesta
and Batcheller getting their respective
records.

“Obviously our number one goal
was to get a win,” said Batcheller.

“But once your guaranteed that win,
then you start thinking about the
records . . . It’s something I’ll think a lot
more about a lot more in a few years
then I do right now. In a few years you
can look back and realize it’s something
special.”

“The guys I played with, the se-
niors, and the classes below us, we
really formed a special bond.”

When asked about Littlehale’s ex-
pectations in the next three years,
Batcheller responded, “He’s going to
be great. He throws a really nice ball
and makes the right reads. He knew
more than I did out there when I was a
freshman.”

Malatesta, senior offensive lineman
Warren Hedges, sophomore linebacker
Jeff Bahl, and sophomore placekicker
Brad Wiginton were all honored last
Thursday by being selected for the
College Division GTE Academic All-
District squad.

Malatesta is a business administra-
tion and accounting major who holds
a 3.40 GPA. He had 53 receptions for
804 yards and ﬁve touchdowns on the
season. Hedges majors in European
history and Russian studies and car-
ries a 3.674 GPA. He was part of a line
that let up only 12 sacks this year.

Bahl, a business administration ma-
jor, holds a 3.3 1 GPA. He had 69 tackles
and 35 sacks this season. Wiginton
majors in business with a 3.37 GPA. He
went 4-7 on ﬁeld goals this year.

’ :~

   

Photo by David Hanson/Assistant Photo Editor

EAT IT. YEAH, I SAID EAT IT: Freshman running back Chris Sullivan escapes a dusted Swarthmore defender. The Generals were all but
merciless in Saturday’s defeat of the Garnet Tide, 40-13. This win for the Generals brings their ﬁnal season record to an even 5-5.

VoHeyball’s spectacular season comes to close at NCAA tourney

By Sarah Schmidt

STA FF WRITER

_ Washington and Lee volleyball
reached new heights in 1999; break-
ing several school and conference
records, going undefeated in the
ODAC for the second straight year,
claiming its third consecutive ODAC
tournament championship, and quali-
fying for the NCAA national touma-
ment for the ﬁrst time in school his-
tory.

The Generals were in Atlanta this
weekend for the opening rounds of the
South Region of the NCAA touma-
ment hosted by Emory.

W&L, seeded sixth, faced the third
seed, Savannah College of Art and
Design (SCAD). For the second tim'e
this season W&L took SCAD to ﬁve,
games before falling to the Bees.

The Generals stumbled out of the
blocks, dropping their ﬁrst ever na-
tional tournament game 15-1. “We were
stuck in the moment,” head coach Terri
Dadio Campbell said. “We played back
on our heels that game.”

To their credit, the Generals re-
grouped to win the next two games
(15-11 and 15-10)andpullahead2-1 in
the match. “We played well from that
point on,” Dadio Campbell said. W&L
came close in the last two games, 7-15

and 11-15, but couldn’t come up with
the win.

“We had our chance in the fourth
game (to win the match).bu1.we just
cou'idn’t get a hit,” Dadio Campbell
stated. “They blocked really well and
wejust didn’t make the adjustments.”
The Generals were lead by sophomore
middle blocker Lindsay Ruckert who
ﬁnished her stellar season with 15 kills,
seven digs and four blocks. Senior
outside hitter Nancy Reinhart’s re-
markable career came to an end on a
nine kill, 1 I dig performance.

Anchoring the back line wasjunior
defensive specialist Tori Hays, claim-
ing 10 digs. Sophomore outside hitter

Lee Charbonet tallied 15 kills and six
digs while junior setter Katherine Kline
notched 23 assists. ‘

SCAD (22-9) went on to beat the
second seeded tournament host
Emory to qualify for the Regional
Championship, placing them among
the top twelve teams in the country.

Although the team showed obvi-
ous disappointment, Dadio Campbell
was quick to point out that it was a
great season for General’s volleyball.

The team ﬁnished 10-0 in the ODAC
and 22-6 overall. W&L dominance in
the ODAC is nothing new, the Gener-
als haven’t lost to a conference oppo-
nent in the past two seasons.

Cross country competes at NCAA regionals

By Steele Cooper

SPORTS EDITOR

After the ODAC finals at
Bridgewater College on Oct. 30, the
Washington and Lee men’s and
women’s cross country teams com-
peted at the NCAA Division 111 South/
Southeast Regional Finals on Satur-
day.

The women’s squad looked to
capatalize on the momentum built up
behind them after taking the ODAC
crown two weeks ago.

The women placed sixth overall at
the regional meet. Last year the team
placed twelfth.

“This was the biggest meet of the
season for us. We usually gear our
season toward the ODAC ﬁnals. Once
we won ODACS we were able to turn
to this meet and I think we performed
very well,” saidjunior Jessica Parillo.

W&L was led by freshman Burke
Duncan andjunior Kathleen Moroney
who earned all-region honors. Duncan
ﬁnished 22nd with her time of 20: 13
and Moroney placed 25th with her

1999 ALL

VOLLEYBALL

Nancy Reinhart
Lindsay Ruckert

Lee Charbonet
V Lindsay Ruckert
Lindsay Ruckert
MEN’ s SOCCER

Jamie Parker

ODAC SELECTIONS

1 sr TEAM ALL ODAC

2N1) TEAM ALL ODAC
ODAC PLAYER or THE YEAR

ODAC TOURNAMENT MVP

1 ST TEAM ALL ODAC

Wondering what the pay is? Compensation
includes an hourly wage, stock options
and a performance bonus.

This job is a great way to earn money while
gaining valuable experience. if you are
interested, send an e—mail with your name,

time of 20:23. 116 women ran in the
meet.

Duncan has proved to be a true
leader on the course. This fall Duncan
helped pace W&L in their win at the
ODAC championship meet with her
third place individual ﬁnish.

“Any leadership that I have taken
on the team this year has been a role
of silent leadership,” said Duncan.
“We have great captains that are good
motivators for us. They lead in many
more ways than just in the races.”

The more expereinced runners on

  

Work for a Hot Internet Start-Up

Are you a born leader? Do you want to work for a hot
Internet start-up?

VarsityBooks.com is looking for student leaders from
colleges nationwide to become Lead Campus Reps.
As a paid member of our team, you will hire
and direct a staff to carry out VarsityBooks.com's
marketing efforts on your campus.

  
 
 
  
   
 

the team are just as appreciative of the
efforts of the underclassmen.

“I don’t know if anyone expected
us to do this well. We have a strong
group of runners that work very well
together. Our new talent made a great
addition to the team,” said Parillo.

“I think we stacked up well against
the larger teams.” added Duncan.

The men’s team ﬁnished ninth over-
all after placing fourth at ODACs.
Sophomore Rob Naftel earned all-re-
gion honors by placing 20th of 127 with
his time of27:47.

Youn ARTICLE COULD
so HERE! WRITE FOR
PHI SPORTS. EMAIL

COOPERT@WLU.EDU.

 

Their presence has been felt in the
record books as well with Reinhart
owning the conference record in kills
and digs; In addition, Reinhart also
holds school records.

Ruckert was named ODAC Player
of the Year, ODAC tournament MVP,
and First Team all conference.

Reinhart was named to the First
Team All ODAC as well and Charbonet

earned Second Team all ODAC hon-
ors.

Loaded 'with returning talent and
NCAA tournament experience under
their belt, Dadio Campbell looks to a
bright future for the Generals.

“We’re looking forward to next
year and a chance to get back to the
tournament and advance even fur-
ther,” she said.

THIS YEAR A LOT OF COLLEGE
SENIORS WILL BE GRADUATING
INTO DEBT.

up to a $65,000 limit.

in default.

 

The offer applies to Perkins Loans, Stafford Loans,
and certain other federally insured loans, which are not

And debt relief isjust one of the many beneﬁts
you’ll earn from the Army. Ask your Army Recruiter.

(540) 886-2651
ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE?

www.goarmy.com

Under the Army’s
Loan Repayment
program, you could get
out from under with a
three-year enlistment.

Each year you serve
on active duty reduces
your indebtedness by one
third or $1,500, which-
ever amount is greater,

- community.

Located in the mountians of North Carolina,
CR! offers a sernester study program {or
undergzéaduazes. It seeks applications from
students who value interdisciplinary study,
experience with nature, and life in a small

. Limited space is available for Spring 2000.

A Semester in the Woods

Earn a full semester of Academic Credit in the Humanities
Enjoy a range of Outdoor Adventure Activities

Studio Art Backpacking
Philosophy Rock Climbing
Religious Studies Mountain. Biking
Literature Canocing
Kayaking

 
 
 

school and Contact information to:
repinquiries@varsitybooks.com

 
 

 

Ben Thompson

  

WoMEN’s SOCCER
1ST TEAM ALL ODAC
. Kate Bidwell
‘l Shana Levine

Rock www.castle-rock.org”
1115 titut«« ~mm~

varsitybooks.com

Your Onlinc College Bookstore

 

 

Where common
decency IS on

PAGE 6

LAST WORD

NOVEMBER 15, 1999 I

Getting that dream
job after graduation

By Kevin McManemin

F I ITER, HA PPIER, MORE PRODUCTIVE

As an American, I like money. As a senior joumalism/
mass communications major, I’m probably not going to
see very much of it anytime soon. As far as the -real world
is concerned Ijust spent the last four years at the circus.

Luckily, there are quite a few ways an ambitious person
could make money these days:

1) Do something stupid and then sue somebody for not
stopping you.

2) Get ﬁve gay-looking guys together, rerecord some
old New Kids on the Block numbers and watch as every
preteen girl in the country scrambles to spend her allow-
ance on any piece of merchandise you plaster their pic-
tures on.

3) Go on one of those ridiculous new million dollar TV
game shows, the ones with the “dramatic” lighting and
music and the hosts like Regis Philbin
or Chuck Woolery who are clearly
both well over 80 years old but have
somehow miraculously managed to

avoid going gray. -  f )7”,-'~'-'i.  S

4) Geta job. it “I  .
-.,-,..',_r. 05' .

Unfortunately, most of us will end ""

up taking route 4, the least interest-
ing, but most dependable way to get cash. So how do we
go about the daunting task of deciding what to do with the
rest of our lives? Well, any good career counselor will tell
you that the ﬁrst step towards ﬁnding a job is identifying
your dreams and ignoring them. The world has enough
rock stars and major league ball players as it is, and let’s
face it, Bub, you just don’t make the cut.

If you look at the chart below, you’ll see the approxi-
mate chances of actually paying the rent consistently with

a given career:
Actor — 0.04%
Writer —- 0.07%

Middle-manager at a large faceless suit-wearing corpo-
ration who works on a PC in a cubicle moving numbers
around from one column to another in between e-mail breaks
until they’re eventually downsized and hired as a middle-
manager at the large faceless suit-wearing corporation
down the block. —— 98%

Once you’ve resigned yourself to the fact that the rest
of your life is going to supremely suck, it’s time to start the
job search process!

Now in the old days, thejob search was easy; you just
did what Daddy did. Daddy was a blacksmith, you became
a blacksmith. Daddy was the town drunk, you became a
town drunk. Daddy was a Senator, you became a town
drunk. It was a simple system. But life, like the Income Tax
Code, just gets more complex every year.

These days we’re expected to go out and ﬁnd jobs on
our own. Also, thanks to Freud, we now all realize that we
actually hate our fathers, and the last thing in the world
we’d ever want to become is them. This is why every gen-
eration since Freud has had to come up with an ever-louder,
ever-more-obnoxious musical style. Unfortunately, it has
now gotten to the point where the next generation will
have no conceivable way to piss off their parents through
music so we’ll just have to go back to Bach and Mozart
and Vosbein and start the whole thing over again.

But back to the job search —-— no, never mind that, let’s
get back to music; it’s far more interesting. Do you think
that twenty years from now they’ll be playing Kid Rock on
“oldies” stations? Can you imagine any conceivable thing
the children of the future could play on their Stratocasters
that would make their parents say “tum that sh** down,
I’m trying to listen to my old Korn albums in peace!”

-- ’$THEArRE  
ATWASI-HIVGFON AND Lag I

  Directed By Holly Estes

.a. senior project.‘  .

eil Simon’S

Biloxi

Blues

nee. 3, 4,6 - 3 pm.
Dec. 5  p.m.:,  p

 

Johnson Theatre

Anyway. . .

The best way to find ajob is to go out and look for one,
unless you’re a comp sci major in which case they come
looking for you. The traditional place to start is in the news-
paper want ads, which is a ﬁne place to go if you’re look-
ing to ﬁll a position somewhere in the l940’s. lfyou want a
job today, though, you have to go online.

Online databases are great because you can search
through them for speciﬁc terms to tailor the exactjob speci-
ﬁcations you’re looking for. First, search through the data-
base for the words “experience necessary,” “MBA pre-
ferred” or “highly motivated go-getter.” You won’t be get-
ting those jobs. Then search for the word “assistant,” be-
cause no matter what word they put in front of it — execu-
tive, managerial, production, editorial — it still means that
your primary tasks will include cleaning the gunk out of
the coffee machine and running to the local deli to pick up
lunch for the important people. Hey, if you wanted to rob
yourself of all your dignity just for
money, you would have gone to law
school, right?

Also, you can pretty much rule
out any want ads with phrases like
“works well on deadlines,” “ability
to work on several tasks simulta-
neously,” or any combination of
the words “hard” and “work.” Remember: just because
you need a job doesn’t mean you need to work. There are
plenty of positions in corporate America with little or no
actual responsibilities — you just have to go out there and
find them.

So as you peruse the electronic want ads, keep an eye
out for phrases like “self-starter.” That’s their way of say-
ing that you’re not going to have a boss breathing down
your neck, and chances are no one in the ofﬁce will have
any idea exactly what you’re supposed to be doing. That
means you can probably get some serious slacking done
at work.

Once you’ve identiﬁed the perfect job for you, it’s time
to go out there and get it. That means one thing: time to
pad the ol’ resume! And when I say “pad,” I mean “ﬁa-
grantly fabricate.” However, if you’re one of those “honor”
freaks, then don’t think about it as lying; just think about

it as not telling quite so much of the truth. For instance, .

let’s say you were the champion of your frat’s beer pong
tournament. Well, I’d call that “proven success in a highly
competitive, goal-oriented environment,” wouldn’t you?
What if you slept with someone new every weekend? Golly,
you sure sound like “a real people person” to me!

If the company asks for an interview, well, that’s your
time to shine. Just remember to stop by the hospital ﬁrst
and pick up a wheelchair or at least some crutches to boost
the sympathy factor through the roof.
And don’t be afraid to ask them tough
questions as well, such as the com-
pany policies on sleeping on the job
or having a keg in the ofﬁce. Hey man,
you don’t want to be signing on to
some big fascist hassle, you know?

With a little luck and a little black-
mail, thejob will soon be yours. Con-
gratulations! You’ve joined America’s
bustling work force. One day soon
you’ll be relaxing at home in your
leather armchair, smoking an expensive
cigar, drinking a glass of magniﬁcent
Chateau de Somethingerother and yell-
ing upstairs “will you kids turn that
crap down! I’m trying to listen to some
classic Limp Bizkit in peace!”

Lenfest Center

Subject: Campus Notices
Date: Mon, 15 Nov 1999 08:31:36 -0500 (EST)
From: Postmaster{no-reply}@wlu.edu

5 Campus Notices for Wednesday, November 15, 1999

1 : From: Campus Calendar
Subj: Calendar Events for November 15

2: From: Shelley Percy <percys@wlu.edu>
Subj: Poetry Reading

3: From: Arlan Berkley <berklea@wlu.edu>
Subj: Shepard Poverty Program

4: From: Dick Griefy <griefyd@wlu.edu>
Subj: Film Society

5: From: Terrence McNulty <trncnult@wlu.edu>
Subj: HOT STEAMING MATH COLLOQUIUM!

Notice #1

From: Campus Calendar <>
Subj: Calendar Events for November 15

Calendar Events for Monday, November 15 1999

3 p.m.: Career Services Seminar: “So you f"‘**ed
yourself for life — Surviving the English/Philosophy
major.” University Center, room 1 14.

7 p.m.: Lecture: “Disassociating the paradigms of
Western post-industrial political infrastructure within a
neo-Marxist, post-colonial agrarian model.” Part of the
Stuffy Academic Lecture Series. Science Center A214.

8 p.m.: Women’s Ice Hockey Team game vs.
Randolph-Macon, Warner Center pool (bring ice cubes).

Notice #2

F rom:Shelley Percy <percys@wlu.edu>
Subj: Poetry Reading

The Society for the Arts had scheduled a poetry
reading at the Ruse in order to let the campus’ best
poets put the “dull” in “self-indulgent drivel.” Due to
the Ruse closing, however, the reading will take place

‘across the street at BJ’s Oasis on Friday night. Come

for the poetry —- stay for the townie ﬁghts!
Notice #3

F rom: Arlan Berkley <berklea@wlu.edu>
Subj: Shepard Poverty Program

The Shepard Poverty Program is conducting a study
of the effects of W&L tuition on increasing poverty
rates among parents. If your parents have registered
for Welfare/food stamps/govemment assistance as a

result of your attending W&L, please contact us at
463-2344.
Notice #4

From: Dick Griefy <griefyd@wIu.edu>
Subj: Film Society

This weekend the W&L ﬁlm society is holding the
ﬁfth annual Eurotrash Film Festival. The festival be-
ings at 7 p.m. Friday at the Troubadour cinema with a
screening of Maurice DuChammant’s Palme D’Orr win-
ning “Le Fois Sont Les Pantalons,” (1997) a stunning
post-structuralist vision of existential ennui in modern
day Paris. Though it has no plot, no central characters
and no dialogue, “Le Fois Sont Les Pantalons” is still
four-and-a-half captivating hours of nonsensical, free-
association fun! Bring popcorn!

Saturday at 5 p.m. the Eurotrash Film Festival con-
tinues with Hans Gr(lber’s 1998 masterpiece “Das
Bildhuntverschpinladdelmichausfuntgottenlichauf”(lit- .
erally translated: “the pencil”). With “Das
Bildhuntverschpinladdelmichausfuntgottenlichauf,”
Grtiber serves up a hearty portion of darkness and de-
spair, with heaping piles of angst on the side! The ﬁlm
follows the exploits of a pencil as it lies motionless in a
darkened room for two hours. “Das
Bildhuntverschpinladdelmichausfuntgottenlichauf,”

sets the new standard for pretentious, inaccessible Euro 5

art. It’s sure to please the expatriate hipster in all of us!

The festival concludes Saturday at 8 p.m. with
Giuseppe Ristorante’s “Bella Jouma,” (1996) which fol-
lows chronologically two hours in the life of a naked
young Italian girl as she comes of age. See the ﬁlm that
won the Jury Prize at Carmes, and the “Satan’s Work of
the Year” nod from the Christian Coalition!

Be sure to dress in black for all of the Eurotrash Film
Festival screenings, and show up early for the good
seats.

Notice #5

From: Terrence McNulty <trncnult@wlu.edu>
Subj: HOT STEAMING MATH COLLOQUIUM!

Yes sir mathkateers, it’ s that time of year again:
MATH COLLOQUIUM TIME! Sign up today because,
brother, space it limited! Don’t be left out of these great
math moments:

—Dr. Irving C. Yanklebaum, University of Colorado,
“Limited number set analysis of vector parallel planes.”

—Dr. H.P. Englebart, University of Washington,
“Non-linear differential equations along the y-axis prime
integers.”

——Dr. Prunella V. F arber , Johns Hopkins University,
“Hyperbolic functions of x2/r(x+r).”

This math colloquium be da rockin’est, hip-hopin’est
happenin’ this side of a Limp Bizkit concert! Yo, it be
math time, y’all! Yeah boy!

 

  

Grab the kids and come on down to Lexington ’s newest eatery —

STEREOTYPICAI.
ITALIAN PIZZARIA

OW‘ gmmviiee: If our restaurant is not 100%

interchangeable with any of the other 32,459 Italian
pizzarias in America, eh, fuggetaboutit!

PIZZA - SUBS - CALZON€S - MOR€ PIZZA — DIFF€R€NT SUBS - OTH€R
CALZONEIS - PIZZA-FLAVOR€D SUBS - CALZON€ PIZZA - MOR€ PIZZA

Located downtown right next to the Happy Steleotype Chinese .Lestelant.
Confucius he say “me rikey egg foo young vely much!”

 HAPPY ST€L€OTYP€
cnmese L€STAULANT

— (1

now try
another"

 

{—

t Word fake ad — well obviously

 

 

