 

‘ﬁt

It

!'\

‘\ /1 if: 4.’...

.51‘ ’ 

    

i

RG11: ﬂing-tum lﬂlti

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

VOLUME 102, No. 4

Buffalo Cree
plays it loud

Students and locals alike enjoy a safe
weekend with nothing in moderation

By Michael R. Crittenden

STAFF WRITER

With the fragrant smell of
patchouli and burning couches in
the air, the Washington and Lee stu-
dent body celebrated the Buffalo
Creek Music Festival this weekend
with all the craziness students have
come to expect.

“It was incredible,just amazing,”
said freshman Meg Doyle of her first
festival experience. “ I couldn’t be-
lieve that many people would all be
out there partying and having a good
time.”

Co-funded by Greek organizations
and the SAB, this year’s festival in-
cluded student favorites Agents of
Good Roots, the Zen Tricksters, and
the Ominous Sea Pods as well as the
W&L student band Barclay
Honeywood. The lineup, organized
by senior Chris Noland, also included
the reggae band Zion Wave, the Disco
Biscuits and Humunculous. Senior
Chris Edwards, a member of Barclay
Honeywood, said the experience was
great for him and fellow
bandmembers.

“As a senior I was really excited
to play at Buffalo Creek, something
I’ve waited four years to do,” said
Edwards. “It was really fun to play
outside on a real sound system in
front of fellow students and the at-
mosphere was great."

Beautiful weather was another
positive for the festival, which was
threatened by rain and cold weather
on Friday. Saturday’s clear sunny
skies and mid-80s temperature made
it.a perfect day for students to relax
in the river, listen to bands and prac-

tice their favorite past time —— party-
ing.

“It was a blast,” said freshman
Helen Downes. “Just a constant 48-
hour drunkeness.”

A veteran from last year’s festi-
val, Downes said that she thought the
weekend was a great success and that
the musical lineup was fantastic. All
in all, she said things were relatively
peaceful.

“There was some friction between
the frat guys and the hippies follow-
ing the bands, but for the most part I
think people were just having a good
time listening to the music and party-
ing,” said Downes.

In what has turned into a Spring
Term ritual for festival goers, this
year’s Buffalo Creek once again saw
the burning of old couches and fur-
niture on Saturday night. The tradi-
tion, mythically spawned at festivals
past by seniors celebrating their im-
pending graduation, was alive and
well this year, with students burning
anything and everything they could
find.

Said sophomore Christie Phillips,
“ The guys were getting all fratty and
crazy around the campfires late
night. They were burning couches,
chairs, small forest creatures— any-
thing they could get their hands on.
It was great and the whole school
was there.”

This year also saw the continu-
ance of the less practiced tradition of
ﬂre walking which an intoxicated
W&L student invariably attempts
late on Saturday night. This year’s
sacrifice was sophomore Patrick
Wright who was seen bravely at-
tempting to traverse the ﬂames. De-

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, MAY 17, 1999

photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Editor

Phi Kappa Psis . . . take a dip in their Nissan mobile kiddie pool at the Buffalo Creek Music Festival on Saturday.

Kesey advises W&L:

scribing his attempt, Wright said it
has probably been blown out of pro-
portion.

“It was no big deal, I just tried to
jump through the ﬂames and sort of
fell through the fire to the other side.
Everyone oohed and ahhed, and went
nuts, but it wasn’t like I caught on
fire,” said Wright. Wright survived
the perilous attempt without injury
and said that reports of him catching

on fire and lighting up like a marsh-
mallow were false.

Overall the festival was another
great success with a mixed bag of stu-
dents and hippies relaxing and enjoy-
ing the music at Zollman’s. Junior
Dillon Whisler summed up student
reaction, saying:

“It was a hell ofa show. The bands
were great— it was mad craziness, tom-
foolery and fun for all.”

Rehnquist makes his case at 144*“
LawsSchool commencement

By Hollister H. Hovey

ASSOC]/t TE EDITOR

Justice rode into Lexington yes-
terday to send 1 18 future lawyers off
into the world.

United States Supreme Court Chief
Justice William Rehnquist delivered
the commencement address at the
Washington and Lee School of Law.

The University awarded both
Rehnquist and former law school
dean Roy Lee Steinheimer, Jr. honor-
ary doctor of law degrees.

Rehnquist’s speech was not po-
litical. He solely warned the gradu-
ates not to be consumed by money
and to love the law, no matter where
they ended up practicing it.

“It’s only natural to want to maxi-

 AT LONG LAST! Following seven years of higher educa
Executive Committee president Beth Formidoni ‘96, ‘99L receives her Juris
Doctor from Washington and Lee University President John W. Elrod.

mize your opportunities now that you
have graduated — or to put it another
way, ‘to go for the brass ring,’”

' Rehnquist said in his address. “This

is a commendable instinct, and will
serve you well in the practice. But in
making vour decision, it is of utmost
importance that you decide for your-
self which ring is the brass one.”

Many students found Rehnquist’s
speech very appropriate for the oc-
casion.

“I think it was a fantastic person
to come speak,” Executive Commit-
tee president and law school grad
Beth Formidoni said. “I thought it was
really great that he tailored his com-
ments to law students and spoke to
things that would be relevant for us.”

This was Rehnquist’s second of-

‘photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
tion in Lexington,

ﬁcial visit to W&L in recent years.
Rehnquist also delivered the eulogy
at the funeral of his fellow justice and
W&L alumnus Lewis F. Powell earlier
this year.

“It’s always an honor to have
someone of the Chief Justice’s dis-
tinction here on campus,” President
John Elrod said. “I thought he gave
some very down-to-earth and com-
mon sense advice to these gradu-
ates. Lawyers have lots of options
and they ought to be clear about the
one that’s most suitable to them and
choose it.”

In addition, Dean of the Law
School Barry Sullivan addressed the
graduates, saying, “I am conﬁdent
that each of you will succeed, per-
haps not at first, and perhaps not with-

out much effort and perseverance,
but I know that each of you will suc-
ceed.”

    

 

ph y i y m/Photo Editor

U.S. Chief Justice Rehnquist

Drive-in done?

By Daniel J . Grattan

NEWS EDITOR

Lexington has already lost Harris Teeter this year, and
now another landmark may be gone as well.

Hull’s Drive-In has been a family entertainment standby
since the summer of 1950, when the movie “Wake of the Red

 _ _ Witch” starring John Wayne graced the screen for the first

time. Back then it was called Lee Drive-In before Sebert Hull
bought it in 1957. Hull died last year and the business was
purchased by Goad’s Body Shop, located next to the the-
ater. According to The News-Gazette, Goad planned on
keeping the theater open, but that may not occur after all.
“I would love to see [the drive-in] open again this year,”
Goad said. “But it’s just not feasible to open it right now.”
Because of changes in film formatting over the years, the
projector used at Hull’s has become obsolete, and would
cost $35,000 to replace. Overall, according to Goad, it would
take nearly $60,000 in repairs for the theater to re-open this
season. Also, ﬁlm companies are now charging substan-
tially more to show the movies, and that would limit the type
and amount of movies that Goad could afford to purchase.
Goad said that he could raise ticket prices to cover the
costs, but even if the ticket price was doubled the theater
would still not be close to breaking even for the season.

By Hollister H. Hovey

ASSOCIA TE EDITOR

When psychedelic author Ken
Kesey agreed to come speak at Wash-
ington and Lee University, no one
was sure what to expect. At the very
least, he spouted words quite possi-
bly never uttered before in Lee
Chapel.

During his Thursday night speech,
Kesey opened his address playing a
tune on a Native American pipe used
in mating rituals, called for a ban on
bullets, a big dump on Kosovo and
more marijuana husbandry.

At the book signing afterwards,
he passed around liquor.

Then Kesey jettisoned his poli-
tics at the crowd. He read his essay
on the Springfield, Ill. school
shootings published in Rolling
Stone last year.

“I was a little bit freaked out when
he started reading out of Rolling
Stone because I didn’t know where
was going with the speech, but once
he started talking it was awesome,”
junior Contact member Roshni Nirody
said. “I’m sure he said a lot ofthings
that have never been said in Lee
Chapel before.”

Many felt that Kesey’s outspoken
opinions were good for the students
to hear.

“I think that we listen to the same
thing over and over here, so hearing
something different now and then is
really nice,” junior Contact member

  make love not war

Chip Westerman said.

The overwhelming theme of
Kesey’s address was what he called
“old hippie bullshit” — make love not
war. He said the crisis in Kosovo
could be stopped without killing by
dropping thousands of gallons of
urine on the city. It would destroy
morale and give NATO the upper-
hand. If it didn’t work, Kesey claimed,
“we would just drop something
heavier.”

Kesey’s love stopped when it
came to personal political enemies,
though. National Riﬂe Association
president Charlton Heston, Virginia
Military Institute commencement
speaker and notorious Watergate
felon G. Gordon Liddy and Washing-
ton and Lee alum and fellow author,
Tom Wolfe ‘SI came under attack.

Wolfe’s “The Electric Kool-Aid
Acid Test” chronicled the psychedelic
cross-country bus trips Kesey and
other writers made during the 1960s
and 1970s. Wolfe was an outsider to
Kesey’s drug culture, but he capital-
ized on the movement, and according
to Kesey, inaccurately.

“When people brought books that
Tom Wolfe had signed, he kind of
signed right over Tom Wolfe’s signa-
ture,” Nirody said.

“He was a shocking speaker,”
Contact chair Jason Hahn said. “It was
interesting that he chose something
of current interest. I thought he had
some creative ideas about solving the
crisis in Kosovo.”

May 17, 1999

OPINION:

W&L1EE:

SPORTS:

@112 ‘ﬁling-tum ilﬁlti

Kesey trippin’, little study abroad aid

Candide, Star Wars near curtain calls

Denison surprises Men’s lax

PAGE 2

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

5
i

on-.—.~:T. -.w-.—v- a - .-.v-.—.... .. -4..., . ... -.-

_._.,._.2....._....._._ ._._ , ....... « ..._;- ._._.__.-_._-.. .._..A.__-..c._..._..u...u-_v .-_.....-.;......__E.._._-....._.....____ ._.-_E._..... -. .-....:._.Av..._-._._.__ « ;_ VD"'T>"V"'D‘a~4-"voqn-

 

MAY 17, 1999

O

 

@112 ﬂting-tum Zlﬂlii

PINION

PAGE 2

STA:
DTUIURIAL

To the university’s beneﬁt, Washington and Lee has at-
tempted to encourage a greater percentage of its students
to study abroad. In doing this, this school has done a num-
ber of things correctly. Expanding programs, establishing
an international education ofﬁce, and holding study abroad
fairs, for instance.

And yet the university has neglected one major part of
the study abroad experience — financing.

There are a number of students who attend W&L on full
merit scholarships, and then those who are here on need-
based ﬁnancial aid. It is understood that in investing in
these students, they will become successful in that place we
call the “real world,” and represent the university well aﬁer
graduation. _

Every year we watch the endowment climb. The presi-
dent of the university is prominently featured in a magazine
article boasting about how W&L avoids the “Robin Hood
effect” in setting its tuition rates. Each fall. we listen to Dean
Howison pontiﬁcate about how W&L students are the
happy—go-luckiest in the nation. Well, great guys. But there’s
still a real world out there beyond the reaches of Red Square,
and maybe those of us who are here because of our merits
(instead of our relatives) or in spite of our financial back-
grounds, should get the chance to get out there and see it.
It’d be great if there was some financial support there for
those who can’tjust slap down daddy’s VISA number.

Yet if W&L wants to further ensure that these students
will be successful after graduation, they must not limit the
academic experience of these students by holding them on
campus with financial ties. At present, these merit and need-
based scholarships do not transfer to study abroad experi-
ences.

In a world that is becoming increasingly whole-world
rather than nationally oriented, study abroad is a crucial
experience to those looking to become successful. To re-
main competitive in this type of world, W&L must not limit
the experiences of its students to the Shenandoah Valley. Its

/I

. students must travel, experience, and come to understand
 the wider world. The university must adopt a policy that
j allows merit-based scholarships to transfer to study abroad
i programs.

C’mon W&L, put all that money where your mouth is.

  
   
 

z
4
h

‘iiote of the Week:

‘in.

“Find out what a
breast is before you
write about it.”

— News Editor Dan Grattan.

J}
@112 Ring-tum ilﬁlii

Executive Editor Polly Doig
Associate Editor Hollister Hovey
News Editor Dan Grattan

W&Life Editors Elianna Marziani
Ginger Phillips
Frances Groberg
Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin
Heather McDonald
Emily Barnes

Ali Soydan

Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor
Last Word Editor
Copy Editor

Photo Editor

Online Editor

Erica Prosser
Sarah Meldrum

Senior Editors

Jason Williams
Matt Lorber
Lionel Brown

Business Manager
Advertising Directors
Circulation Director

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editors, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 ofthe University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters, columns and “Talkback” do not
reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes fucking
current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wIu.edu
http://wlu.ea'u/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

Last Thursday night I sat in Lee Chapel and listened
to unreformed hippie Ken Kesey playing his fish ﬂute
and discussing the geopolitical benefits ofdropping acid
on the Serbs instead of bombs.

I went home and checked my calendar. Sure enough,
May 13, 1999. Almost 30 years after Woodstock. Within a
few years ofthat boomer-nostalgia-fest Jim and Jimi and
Janis were dead of overdoses and hippies starting turn-
ing in their beads and ﬂowers forjobs
with good dental beneﬁts and nice
40 l K plans.

Perhaps Kesey didn’t get the 
memo that the sixties ended. My par-
ents certainly did (in fact I think my
mom got it in early 1958 but that’s
another story). We all learned that peace is impossible,
drugs rot the brain and love causes nasty diseases. Didn’t
we? After long thought I came up with three possible
explanations as to what Kesey might be doing at W&L:

l) Kesey is stuck in the sixties and he came here be-
cause we’re stuck in the sixties too. I think 1962 was the
last time anyone in academia thought a homogeneous
student body and a frat-centered social system were good
ideas.

2) Kesey and the Merry Pranksters devoted their lives

Sorority houses
not the answer

A lot ofpeople are looking forward to the completion
of Washington and Lee’s five sorority houses. I must
admit, however, that I’m not one of them.

As it is, I do not think that sororities provide a divid-
ing influence on the women who choose to be in one.
Members of different sorority houses still have a chance
to eat and live with each other. Your best friends don’t
necessarily have to be members of your sorority.

With the arrival ofthe sorority houses, however, this
will all change.

There is a rumor circulating that that bureaucracy we
all call “the university” has come up with the bright idea
to make junior girls live in the houses.

I don’t think so.

This is because if Gaines Hall becomes empty or partly
empty, the school will lose money on room and board
fees.

Still, I don’t
think so.

As a sopho-
more, I have all
the freedom in
the world, at
least to a certain extent. A friend of the male sex can stop
by, no matter what time of the night, and even sleep on
the couch if he wants. I can eat with whoever I want, and
I don’t feel responsible to anyone.

To go from this to the regulations that would exist in
the sorority house would be like going from a year at
college back to having a curfew at home.

Not that this didn’t happen.

In the sorority houses, there can be no boys on the
second ﬂoor after a certain hour of the night.

In addition to this, I’m going to turn 21 soon. Off cam-
pus, I would be able to drink with my friends, who will all
be 21 before I will, without worrying about university
policy for on-campus housing. I think that the future jun-
iors, who will be the ones affected by these new policies,
would like the same thing.

According to national sorority rules, there would be
no alcohol allowed on the premises of the houses, no
matter how old the women living there would be.

All in all, I don’t think that thejuniors on this campus
will go for it. I know I don’t. My personal suggestion
would be that the university make sorority housing the
same for the women as for the guys — sophomore year,
you live in the house, along with a couple of the sorority’s
officers.

Junior year, students could then move into Gaines Hall
or Woods Creek, with modified rules involving alchohol
to accommodate those who have reached drinking age.
It’s cheaper than living off campus, and with the new
rules, no one would have a problem.

Senior year, students could move off-campus. Since
the juniors would still be on campus, there wouldn’t be
such a high demand for off campus housing. Landlords
would be forced to lower rent prices.

See? Everyone happy? I sure think so.

/‘(I

L,.I,.... 
2 ""“"" .

  

Frances Groberg ’01

 

 The Kevin McManemin
Experience

4: Atop My Soapbox

LETTER TO THE EDITOR
Don’t1etthe streak die!

Dear Editor,

I am shocked that no one wrote me a complaint
letter this week. I find it appalling that people on this
campus are so apathetic that they can’t even ﬁnd the
time to bitch.

Aren’t there any more alums out there who want
to counter my humor with poorly-thought-out argu-
ments and unrelated Bible quotes?

Please, somebody stop me before I joke again.

Sincerely, ‘

Kevin McManemin ’00

Dear Kevin,

Please stop writing to me. This is a huge conﬂict
of interest. It can ’t continue. And please don ’t say
bitch in the paper anymore.

Sincerely,

The Editor

to freaking out squares and man, you couldn’t ask for a
squarer bunch this side ofa Star Trek Convention.

3) Kesey realizes that we’re young.

Yes, we’re young. We may not look it in our ties and
blue blazers and we may not always act it or even think it,
but the fact remains that most of us are hovering some-
where around the twenty year mark. The true spirit of the
hippies — the spirit of irresponsibility — will always live
on as long as there are twenty-
year-olds around. And Kesey
knows this, just as well as he
knows the proper temperature for
growing cannabis plants. (answer:
room temperature)

Sure, things are different be-
tween our generations. For one thing, our parent’s music
was far better. They had Zeppelin and Hendrix and Pink
Floyd, we’re stuck with mediocre suck-rock like Dave
Matthews and Agents of Unremarkable Song Writing
(Good Roots, sony, I always get that name wrong). Dylan
and Lennon and Morrison were concerned with writing
lyrics that were pure poetry; Biggie, Tupac and Easy-E
were concerned with seeing how many times they could
fit the N-word into each line.

Our parents also had a much better war to ﬁght. Alright,

op Ttttalking ‘bout my gggeneration

Vietnam wasn’t exactly fun, in fact it pretty much sucked,
but you’ve got to admit that the war made for some great
movies. I doubt any future Palme D’Orr winners will be
about the Kosovo conﬂict. Sure, we’re both getting to
bomb innocent civilians, but it’sjust not the same, you
know? Our war is all done by computers. Where’s the
personal touch? Where’s the torturing of suspected en-
emy spies and the [censored to cut the potential inunda-
tion of hate mail]? When we leave the atrocities up to
machines we lose our humanity. '

Come to think of it, our generation has done practi-
cally nothing remotely interesting to distinguish itself.
What fashion trends have we come up with to confound
our elders? Body piercing. Hey, great. Our parents re-
belled through sex and drugs, we rebelled by shoving
sharp shards of metal in our skin. Who do you think got
the better slice ofthe generational pie?

Kesey came to W&L because he knows that inside _

the body of every C-school major beats the heart of a
twenty—year-old who wants to get wasted, get laid, play
the electric guitar and give the middle ﬁnger to society.
Kesey came here to remind us of who we really are. Either
that or for the generous check from the big-spending
Contact Committee, but, hey man, that can’t be it, capital-
ism is a drag, you dig?

Htixsc ?- ~ A L;
l7P/r"u\&r:t7 157/ V ;»’\i'L’.
(T T0 iv’\M er...‘ C«;g”:i\/\(;>t~J"T' ~.
912./¢AKiM/o WT“
i'>6rvlcr:£i&ii‘tc -'rl'Q RT
\’~’F*TF9iZ-Ce/we moat,

“ENE”

A9 it/six‘! (0 R9 Yet]

r‘0pl,e‘»’v' €17 0"iZDE'?'—9~

/N12 ‘xvi:-or Tl-iE.

./ ,. __ _ r__,..’,,-L
 “V You? Lire
(><t7\1’o(./rm N (5
"&L»t>“i.t-qtltn 42%‘: If U 7-

.\\w/

Helpful hints for seniors

In a few days, seniors will leave behind the columned
splendor of W&L for the greener pastures of the real world.
What do you mean “columned” isn’t a word? Well I don’t
care what the dictionary says, everyone knows what I mean.
Oh, forget the columns then. The point is that seniors are
leaving. and the real world can he a scarv place for the
woefully unprepared. So, as part of our court-mandated
community service program, the Phi proudly presents:

The Graduating Seniors’ Guide to the Real World
(alphabetized for your protection)

Bosses

Bosses are just like professors;
they like nothing better than having
lots of smoke blown up their asses.
Remember — you can’t spell “suc-
cess” without “suc,” so start sucking up today and you’ll
be on the fast track in no time.

.«

"3.

Civilization

Many of you will get jobs in big cities. Adjusting to
civilized society can be tough — especially if you move to
the North where people lack the warmth, courtesy and large
sloping brows of Southerners. Not only doesn’t New York
have a speaking tradition, but if you extend the obligatory
W&L “how’s it going” head nod to someone on the sub-
way you’re likely to be pushed into an oncoming car.

Cooking for One
Alright, guys, the fraternity house cook won’t be mak-

ing your meals anymore. It’s up to you to either cook your
own meals or ﬁnd a girlfriend who will. Unfortunately we
live in an age when women will accuse guys ofbeing male
chauvinist pigs for so much as suggesting that a woman
cook for them. So unless you’re willing to risk being per-
sonally picketed by NOW, it’s better to learn to ﬁnd suste-
nance on your own. Here’s a few of my favorite guy-friendly
recipes to get you started:
Microwave dinners
Take out of box. Put in microwave. Cook until done. Eat
until ﬁnished.
Pizza
Call Dominoes. Wait thirty minutes. Pay at door. Perfect
for lunch or dinner, and leftovers are great for breakfast.
Macaroni and Cheese and Ketchup
Possible but not suggested.

(wit  The Five—Year Plan
‘<4. .  Kevin McManemin ‘00

Dating

For the last four years you’ve lived in a fantasy land of
random drunken hook-ups and a social calendar conve-
niently stuffed with date functions. In the real world, dat-
ing is a bit different. Many of you will be tempted to ask out
vour co-workers, but I strongly advise against this. If there’s
one thing I’ve learned from NBC’s Must See TV it’s that
dating co-workers leads to hilarious but ultimately tragic
situations.

Luckily, thanks to the Internet, singles have a great new
way to meet people with similar interests. If you’re lucky
enough to ﬁnd true love on the Web,
you might even ﬁnd yourself having
cybersex.

BigDaddy: I’m stroking your left
thigh now.

HotBlonde: Ooooh! Ooooh!

BigDaddy: I’m gently massaging your breasts.

HotBlonde: Oh BigDaddy! Oh yes!

BigDaddy: I’m showing you two tickets to “Star Wars:
The Phantom Menace.”

HotBlonde: OH YES! YES! YES! YES!

Drinking
In the real world, getting piss drunk every night isn’t

D‘.-

‘Y

considered cool. Read that sentence again. Go on, I want it ‘

to sink in. Studies show that the typical W&L mind can’t
recognize that string of words as a coherent thought until
the second or third reading. Take another pass at it. Got it
now? Yeah, that’ s a doozy of a brain—tickler, ain’t it?

The real world views alcoholism as a “problem,” unless !*

you’re a poet in which case it’s pretty muchpar for the
course. So perhaps it wouldn’t be a bad idea to spend a
couple of weeks after graduation in detox. After four years

here, you’re going to need at least a month in the drunk ’.

tank to flush all the Natty out of your system.

Vacation
Your summer vacations are gone. Christmas vacation,

Thanksgiving, Spring break and Feb break are now con-A,

densed into about a week or two or paid vacation days.
How are you ever going to ﬁt all your relaxation and slack-
ing off into two short weeks?

Answer: You don’t have to! God bless the U.S. ofA! In
America, we relax on thejob. Just think ofthe real world as
one big, long Spring term. Sure, there’s technically work to
be done, but...eh. I’m going to Goshen.

£2.

 

2‘

N

4.

A

I.

i.

MAY 17, 1999

W&L

I112 iﬂing-Clam lﬂlii

IF E

PAGE 3

Not the old song and dance: Candide to delight crowds

By Eliarma Marziani
F EA runes EDITOR

A bastard cousin falls in love with a king’s
daughter. Said king kicks him out because he’s
a pauper. He goes on a journey with priests,
soldiers, and pirates, and learns to live in the
real world— all while singing. . .

Not the story of your roommate’s life be-

‘fore he came to Washington and Lee, this is
the plot of Candide, the major spring term pro-
duction of the Washington and Lee Univer-
sity theater and music departments. Al Gor-
don of the theater department is directing
Candide, with Scott Williamson and Barry
Kolman in charge ofvocals and musical direc-
tion.

Sophomore Josh Chamberlain plays the
title role. Explaining some ofthe interesting
and unique challenges of his role, he said,
“I have to do a lot of kissing and taking
off my clothes.”

Candide is not the story of a New York strip
club, despite what Chamberlain’s remarks
might lead you to believe. Actually, Candide
is a musical, a comic operetta. It is Voltaire’s
satire on opera including about 20 songs in its
less than 2 hours ofplaytime. It is a major pro-

duction, full of plot twists and scene changes.
Up to 30 people will be on stage at the same

time. Some actors play up to seven different
parts, frantically changing from costume to
costume as the scene changes from El Dorado

to Monte Video to a scene
from the Inquisition to a ren-
dezvous with pirates.

Candide is the story of an
optimistic, idealistic youth
who encounters endless ad-
ventures in which evil pow-
ers of society loom in his
path and threaten to consume
him. Mishap follows mishap,
catastrophe follows catastro-
phe, and through all this
Candide learns to accept the
cruel realities that are some-
times present in life and find
happiness in spite of it all.
While the philosophical plot
imagined by Voltaire has great
value, it is by no means the
only or most important attrac-
tion of Candide.

The students involved
consistently cited the comic
aspects of the play, the en-
gaging music, and the bril-
liant costumes as some of the
play’s best features.

Senior Drew Higgs, who
plays both the narrator fig-
ure of Dr. Voltaire and
Candide’s instructor Pangloss, claims that the
play features some ofthe best music he has
heard yet. This is not surprising, as the mu-

sic was composed by music legend Leonard
Bernstein, with witty lyrics the result ofthe
combined genius of Richard Wilbur, John

Coming soon to a galaxy near you

, Sneak peek at Star Wars: The Phantom Menace and its stellar following

4

1

A

.5‘:

i.

By Shazi Niazi

S 7.4 FF WRITER

“May the force be with you.”

Sound familiar? If you have been even semi-
conscious the last few weeks, it should. New
fan clubs and chat rooms devoted solely to
Star Wars have sprung up everywhere. Star
Wars web sites are accessible from all sorts of
popularly used web sites, from the front page
of popular intemet and e-mail providers like
Yahoo and America Online, to news sites like
that of CNN.

The culprit responsible for this cultish
havoc that is being wreaked all over the U.S.?
The new Star Wars movie, the prequel to the
trilogy that was re-released last year: The Phan—
tom Menace. The good thing is that it has fi-
nally almost arrived.

The new Star Wars, Episode I, The Phan—
tom Menace (or whatever other name you want
to call it), arrives in theaters this Wednesday
(or Tuesday at midnight). Probably the most
astonishing part ofthis entire story is the fact
that the movie will debut at our very own the-
ater, here in quaint, peaceful Lexington!

The Phantom Menace has been receiving
bad reviews from many ofthe critics who have
attended advance screenings. However, this is
not stopping hundreds ofpeople all across the
country from waiting in line all night to get the
first tickets. At Mann’s Chinese Theatre in Hol-
lywood, where the original Star Wars premiered
in 1977, people have been waiting outside in
line for weeks. According to Reuters, a Mil-
waukee, Wis., theater is advertising 75’ by 36’
screens, leather seats and gourmet food “such
as chicken tenderloin and potato skins.” I think
the last time I checked, the Lexington theater
"was planning to do the same.

A W&L freshman was caught Friday night
running through dorm halls, showing off his
ticket for the Tuesday-at-midnight ﬁrst show-

ing ofthe movie. This, of course, is all crazy
to me. I think I can contain myself for a few
extra days considering that the world has al-
ready had to wait sixteen years.

For those of you who haven’t been bar-
raged with the facts and story ofthis movie,
here is the general idea. The plot revolves
around the peaceful Galactic Republic and
the threatening Trade Federation. The Trade
Federation is .

  

Obi-Wan isn’t the respectable old guy that
he was before (which, remember, is actually
the future). Now he’s the respectable brave,
studly, young guy. Anyway, these two
guys decide to save Naboo. They strap on
their lightsabers and go find the young
Queen Amidala, played by Natalie Portman,
so they can whisk her offto safety. Some-
where along the way some fighting hap-

pens, and they

 

the greedy Q - end up on
bunch of bad Tatooine.

guys that do Along the way,
evil things for they pick up a little
fun. They are slave boy named
controlled by Anakin Skywalker.
Darth Maul The kid has got
and Darth crazy force poten-
Sidious, who tial, so they drag
happens to him along, and
be the Phan— eventually he ends
tom Menace ‘ H _ V_ up being the Darth
referred t0 in A Photo c rtesy www.csmonior.com that made US all
the llll€- TAKING IT A LITTLE SERIOUSLY: Star Wars fans Pmud in the PFeVi'
(Hope I dress as SW character Darth Vader as they 0“ movies ' ' ' that
didn,t ruin it await the release of Star Wars prequel The take place later‘
for you Phantom Menace Also you get to
there!)All of ' meet that freaky

this precedes the Empire and Rebels we
learned to love in the first three, which
are actually the last three, Star Wars
movies.

Apparently, lots ofgentle, happy people
live on Naboo, a planet ruled by the Repub-
lie and terrorized by the Federation. Back
on the planet of Coruscant, the capital of
the shining Republic, Qui-Gon Jinn and Obi-
Wan Kenobi are chillin’ in the Jedi Temple.
Qui-Gon Jinn, played by formerly respect-
able actor Liam Neeson, is the what all the
reporters on Phantom Menace are calling
the “venerable Jedi Knight”. Qui-Gon Jinn
trains Obi-Wan, played by Ewan McGregor.

Emperor with the Zeus-like abilities; now,
though, he’s only a Senator, but still a
jack***. For those of you who love droids,
muppets, and fat gelatinous serpent blobs:
C-3PO, R2-D2, Yoda, and Jabba the Hut all
make appearances.

I’m sure that many ofyou are going to be
a part of this historical event tomorrow at
midnight or within a few days. I refuse to
give you the advice that everybody is
tempted to, involving the force being with
you. So instead I will leave you with this
personal insight: if the force made Luke
Skywalker kiss his sister, I don’t want to have
anything to do with it!

 

Photo courtesy of W&L's Performance Newsletter

Brooke deRosa ’01 (Cunengonde), Josh Chamberlain ’01 (Candide), Drew Higgs ’99
(Pangloss), and Alix Warren ’02 (Paquette) play some of the lead roles in Candide, the
major joint Theater-Music Department production to open Friday night.

Latouche, and Stephen Sondheim, among
others. Lively and engaging though it may
be, however, the music is not the only im-
pressive part ofthe play.

“It’s a great play to end my career on,”
Higgs said. “I’ve been in 12 plays at W&L,
and so far this is the most fun I’ve had in any
play. I’ve never seen so many props before,
and scene changes. . . it’s a lot offun. There’s
so much that goes on. It’s a lot of fun to watch.”

Higgs cites the “big, bright costumes” pro-
fessionally designed by Barbara Bell ofNew
York as another of the play’s great attributes.

 

Bell and her students of her costume design
class are constructing over ninety of these
brilliant costumes for the play, costumes rang-
ing from those of 18th century lords and la-
dies to sheep.

According to Higgs, with all the witty
dialogue, incredible music, fancy cos-
tuming, involved lighting, and an enthu-
siastic cast, the play is, “gonna be a real
circus.”

Chamberlain agreed, claiming that the
greatest attribute ofthe play is the humor.

“Some ofthe songs arejust so ridiculous,”
he said. “It’s really funny, I guess because it
is so absurd.”

Chamberlain, who will be in Southern Com-
fort next year but has no previous singing
experience at W&L, also loves the music. He
was careful to add, though, that the difficulty
of the complex music and humorous lyrics
also poses a challenge.

The humor and awesome songs did not
come without great effort. The cast, made up
primarily of members of the University Cho-
rus and others who simply enjoy singing, has
been practicing since before spring term for
their performance. Participants receive 3 ﬁne
arts credits each, due to the incredible time
commitment that this production entails. Since
the beginning of spring term, they have been
practicing about three hours each day, and
the amount of practice time continues to
build as the performances nears.

According to all expectations, however,
Candide looks to be a great hit. Insiders have
hinted that the orchestra sounds great, the
actors/singers are all incredibly talented, the
play is shaping up well and is incredibly
funny, and a good time will be had by all in
attendance. Candide will play in Lenfest
starting at 8 p.m. Friday, Saturday, and Mon-
day nights, and a Sunday matinee perfor-
mance will be given at 2 p.m.

Directed y l

T HEA T RE 65' MUSIC presents
“THE BEST OF

ALL POSSIBLE WORLD ”

Musical Direction by Barry K olman
Vocal Direction by Scott Williamson

Book by Hugh Wheeler adapted from Voltaire

John Latouche & Stephen Sondheim
May 21, 22, 24,1999 - 8 pm
May 23, 1999 - 2 pm

Keller Theatre - Lenfest Center
Tickets and lnfor_Ir_i_a_ti_on 540/463-8000

 

    

Music by Leonard Bernstein

Lyrics by Richard Wilbur,

 

Disclaimer:
The Ring-tum

indentured servants,

sponsible for your lack-

have social lives, either, but

be a contagious condition.) If
endar looks thrilling beyond words,

Upcoming events...

  

Phi, its editorial board and

pastor present, are not re-

of a social life. (We don't

it’: scientifically proven to not
nothing appearing on the 24/7 cal-
throw your own party or Pixie Stix

snorting contest and drop us a line,”(that’s phi@wlu.edu) and we'll put it
in.‘ For more information on events that matter, including, but not limited
to, math colloquium: and Responsibility symposiums, see www.wlu.edu/cgi-
bin/apps/calendar/main/calendar.pl or just go to www.whitehouse.com and
see what our leader's, uh, up to these days.

Tuesday, May 18
10:00AM

Wednesday, May 19
6:00 PM:
fessor of history. Lee Chapel.

Thursday, May 20

10:00 AM: Rising juniors begin fall term Registration.

Symposium. “A Conversation on Character with Biographers
of Robert E. Lee and George Washington,” Emory Thomas, authorof “Robert
E. Lee: A Biography” and Richard Norton Smith, author of “Patriarch: George
Washington and the New American Nation.” Lee Chapel.

7:30 PM:

8:00 PM: Graduation recital. The piano students of Shuko Watanabe.
Johnson Theater, Lenfest Center.

Friday, May 21

8:00 PM: Candide directed by Al Gordon. Keller Theater, Lenfest Center.
Saturday, May 22

8:00 PM: Candide. Keller Theater, Lenfest Center.

11:00 PM: Phi Kap, Bahamas party. The basement.

Sunday, May 23
2:00 PM:

Rising seniors begin Registration for fall term.

Senior Night. Remarks by Ted Delaney ’85, assistant pro-

Candide. Keller Theater, Lenfest Center.

Econo
Lodge

540-463-7371

—Parents’ discount
—Newly renovated
—Free HBO with

—No smoking rooms
—Free Continental

remote

breakfast

 

 

@112 {King-tum iﬁltt

SPORTS

Generals upset 17-7   Lubin: defense with a smile ,

PAGE 4

MAY 17, 1999 ,.

her career in lacrosse.

Seventh-ranked Denison crushes second W&L

By Brendan Harrington
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s lacrosse team saw their
season come to a screeching hault on Saturday aﬁemoon at
Wilson Field, as Denison upset the second-ranked Generals 17-
7 in the quarterﬁnals of the NCAA Division III Tournament.

The Big Red (13-2)jumped out to a 4-0 lead in the ﬁrst
quarter and never looked back. Denison attackman Sean
O’Brien. a high school teammate of W&L sophomore
attackman Matt Dugan, scored four goals and added three
assists to lead Denison into the national semiﬁnals for the
first time in team history.

Denison dominated the game in the midﬁeld, continu-
ally forcing turnovers with solid body checks. The Gener-
als were only successful on 23 of their 33 clear attempts.
Denison defenseman Dave Beaver was the unsung hero
for the Big Red, forcing countless loose balls on defense
and adding a goal.

The Big Red also dominated the face-offs, winning 17 of
the 28 Showdowns at midﬁeld. Denison was assisted by
nine W&L penalties, and scored four times on the extra-
man advantage.

The Generals ( 1 3-2) trailed 8-4 at the half and still had a
chance to get back in the game, but Denison scored the

Washington
and Lee
defenders
sophomore
Pete Iwancio
and junior
Charlie
Antrim
attempt to
stop a
Denison
attackman
from scoring
as sopho-
more goalie
Wes Hays
looks on.
Denison beat
the Generals
17-7.

ﬁrst two goals of the third quarter to take a six goal lead.
The Generals scored back-to-back goals of their own to
make it 10-6, but a late third quarter goal by Denison made
it 1 1-6, and for all intents and purposes, the game was over.

In the first round of last year’s NCAA tournament,
Denison led W&L 8-6 at the half, but the Generals scored
nine third quarter goals on just nine shots and went on to
win 16-13. This year the Big Red had no intentions ofa
third quarter collapse.

The Big Red tallied six more goals in the fourth quarter
before senior midﬁelder Tom Super scored the last goal of
the game to make the ﬁnal score 17-7.

Freshman attackman Ryan Berger scored four goals and
junior midﬁelder Drew Jones tallied three goals and one assist
for the Big Red. Dugan totaled two goals and one assist and
junior attackman Chris Brown scored two goals to lead W&L.

Freshman goalie Peter Royer had an outstanding game
for Denison. Although he only made seven saves, he
made some excellent stops that helped the Big Red keep
the momentum.

The Generals will be back, however, as their nine lead-
ing scorers from this season will return next year. W&L will
miss the services of key seniors such as defensemen Mike
O’Neal and Stephen Puckett, and midﬁelders Zeb Mellett,
John Gilman, Tom Super, and Stephen Birdsall.

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

By Frances Groberg

SPORTSEDITOR She also credits Head Coach Ian Hathom as having

been a positive force on her. “All the conﬁdence she had
in me gave me conﬁdence in myself,” Lubin said.

Senior women’s lacrosse co-captain Kimmy Lubin has
recently been named an All South Atlantic Region All Ameri-
can. Lubin adds this to a long line of awards this year, in-
cluding first team All-ODAC and preseason All-American

Yet when asked, it is not the awards that are important
to Lubin.

“Lacrosse has been the most important thing l’ve done
here [at W&L],” Lubin said, “because of all the friend-
ships and conﬁdence in myself that I have gained.”

Lubin began playing lacrosse at a very young age,
throwing in the back yard with her father and sister. She
still considers her father the most inﬂuential person on

citement for the game is evident on the ﬁeld every time she
plays. “Her leadership on the ﬁeld is great ~— I love having
her behind me. She’s always an upbeat and positive force
on the ﬁeld.”

Washington and Lee has seen a number of great play.-
ers come through and play women’s lacrosse, each leav-
ing their own unique mark on the program. Lubin’s legacy
will be that she brought strong play with a great attitude,
and her team was the better for it.

“I wouldn’t have traded it for the world,” she exclaimed.

Burrice to go
toNCAAs

W&L Squash

A record number of students participated in
this year’s squash tournament. Congratulations
to all who participated, as well as the winners.

 

Washington and Lee senior golfer Rick Burrice Cham-
has been chosen to compete on an individual basis pion
in the NCAA Division III Golf Championships. V Kieran

_ The tournament will be B31116)’

held from May 17-20 at the ’00L(left)

Taconic Golf Club in and

Williamstown, Massachu- I'l1111‘l6f-up

setts. Justin

The Taconic Golf Club is Stockdale

owned by Williams College ’00 iI1th°

and is currently rated No.1 m°11’S

 of all collegiate golf division

 

courses in the country.

 
 

Victory on and off the court

By Robert Turner

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee’s Men’s tennis team will lose
ﬁve important seniors from this year’s fourth straight ODAC
championship team. However, none will be missed more
than senior Scott Babka, a key part of the program since
his freshman year who was the team’s leader both on and
off the court.

Babka had both a remarkable year and career as a mem-
ber of the General’s tennis team. He concluded his career
in the best possible way, winning both singles and doubles
titles (teamed with senior Dale Pretila) at the ODAC tour-
nament last month. These victories concluded a memo-
rable career in which Babka won a total of seven ODAC
titles, three in singles and four in doubles.

While his ODAC achievements are his obvious accom-
plishments, Babka also excelled in other matches during
the year. Men’s tennis coach Gary Franke especially re-
members Babka’s effort against Emory, where his perfor-
mance earned him a huge victory over a very tough oppo-
nent that Franke feels “almost helped us pull off a large
upset over higher ranked Emory.”

Babka’s entire family plays tennis, and he grew up
playing from a very early age. He begin taking the sport

seriously just before high school, and subsequently
began to realize that he wanted to play in college.
Though he could have played at a variety of schools,
he chose W&L because he felt it gave him the best
opportunity “to achieve the most both athletically and
academically.”

Mainly a baseline player, the majority of Babka’s suc-
cess was a result of hard work and tireless dedication.
Because of his great attitude, Babka was named a co-cap-
tain this year, and his leadership is perhaps what the team
will miss the most. Coach Franke feels that most ofthe
team’s success is a result of the seniors’ leadership and
positive attitudes, especially from Babka and co-captain

David Lehman. _
Babka’s career stats and achievements speak for them-

selves as to his abilities on the court, but his attitude and
achievements off the court are perhaps what best per-
soniﬁed his overall W&L career, as can be seen by his
excellent GPA. Babka is not sure of his plans after gradu-
ation, but does plan to “take up golf over the summer.”
Babka’s future plans may be somewhat unclear, but one
thing is sure: his presence on the W&L tennis team will
be greatly missed.

Steele Cooper contributed to this article

@ 

FIQAMEWODKS

 

1 N. Main Street, downtown Lexington, Virginia (540) 464-6464

Civil War art and memorabilia
Robert E. Lee 8 Stonewall jackson War Date Documents
W&L, VMI and Lexington art and collectibles
Limited edition art
Custom ﬂaming

Open:
Monday — Friday
10 a.m. — 6p.m.

Saturday
9 a.m. — 4 p.m.

GALLERY

 

Burrice Burrice was one ofjust
five individuals in the na- Champion
tion chosen to compete in L a u I a
the event along with 21 teams. The four-round event Cohen .99
will produce a team and individual champion. (right) and
Burrice averaged 77.0 strokes over 18 rounds this runner_up
season and was the individual ODAC Champion, B e S S O,
shooting a two-day score of 69-74--143. DuRam ,02
As a team, the Generals won their 10th ODAC ,9, in the
Championship, four more than any other team, and  women 3 S
averaged 314.9 strokes per round. division
— Courtesy of Sports Information
W
i / O ' A
. ii!
I
Ciyri ti —baseb US cowqoan
  ‘

SEEKS SALES MANAGER FOR ANY
LOCATION IN THE USA.

—potential3K man
sw/nmerewqo t:

—potential9I< wnntf7puseaca2—
lentbenefitsor —t:imeewqolayw1ent I

469.

 

Sophomore teammate Liz Borges noted that Lubin’s ex— '

