v
CW '2.

. .
€ 372*. 7.55

\/-M9,.
i"».>.../“4,

ifttng-tum {H11 t 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNrvERsrrv’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

-. MES G. l..i1”\’8l..iRN IJBRAFTY
W:'~:.::i'-5lI‘«lE§%TON. 3: LEE LJNJVHQHY

mimorm, wt  —-

iv, - 4‘ ~. 
‘ 9
J

,,VOLUME 102, NO. 24

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, MARCH 20, 2000

Morris offers
insights on

2000 election

Siezes Watts idea, tells W&L:
I’m going to make you famous

By Max Smith

NEWS EDITOR

Washington and Lee provided political adviser, FOX
News panelist and columnist Dick Morris with a new idea
Wednesday.

While discussing potential GOP vice-presidential nomi-
nees, several students suggested Oklahoma Rep. J .C.
Watts as a candidate, after his electrifying speech at this
year’s Republican Mock Convention. Morris loved the
idea.

“This country is dying for minority leadership, espe-
cially in the GOP,” he said. “I’m going to make Washing-
ton and Lee world-famous.” Morris will suggest Watts as
a potential vice-presidential candidate in his New York
Post column, and mention W&L as the genesis of the
idea. If Bush reads the article and likes the idea, Morris
said W&L might start something.

Morris, the campaign advisor credited with Clinton’s
1996 presidential victory, spoke in Lee Chapel Thursday
night. Morris touched on a variety of political topics, from
the 2000 election to the future of politics, in a free-ﬂowing
and engaging speech.

Morris thinks the 2000 presidential election will be in-
consequential since both candidates have essentially the
same views. Besides, Morris added, Congress will be po-
litically split between parties and will negate any of the
president’s measures anyway.

Morris believes Gore could win by running on the en-
vironment, one of the few issues where the public sup-
ports him over Bush. In most other issues, the candidates
are essentially tied in public support. Morris said he ad-
vised Clinton to make education an issue in 1996, which
turned into a huge boost for the President.

“You have to take the issue in which you have an ad-
vantage with the people and make it an even bigger is-
sue,” Morris said.

Morris believes Bush can win if he sticks with his vi-
sion, an idealogical campaign of “compassionate conser-
vatism,” instead of tossing mud around with Gore on po-
litical speciﬁcs, where Gore excels.

Morris believes Gore will pick a VP “just like him” be-
cause Gore thinks he did such a good job in that post.
Sen. Evan Bayh of Indiana is Morris’ pick for Gore.

Bush will probably pick McCain out of political neces-
sity to win, Morris said, even though McCain said he
doesn’t want the postition. Gen. Colin Powell would pro-

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

THE NEW ‘TRICKY DICK’? Former Clinton campaign advisor Dick Morris discusses the future of politics
and the 2000 campaign Thursday night. Contact members Dustin Olsen and Elizabeth Harvey look on.

vide Bush with a big push. Morris doubts Bush will pick
Elizabeth Dole because ofher ties with Bob Dole.
“Bush would go to bed with Liddy and wake up with Bob,’
Morris said. *
Morris ended his Q&A session by describing the time
Clinton came to him for advice on the Lewinsky affair. Mor-
ris, who ran into his Own sexual troubles when he was caught

sucking the toes of a prostitute, said he immediately empa-

thized with Clinton.

“I told him ‘You poor SOB, I know exactly what you’re
going through,” Morris said. “To which Clinton responded,
‘Ever since the election, I’ve had to shut down my body sexu-
ally.’ Think about that folks, the man is married.”

Looking to the future, Morris believes the Internet will
return political control to the people. He believes the public
will vote on every major political issue through the Internet.

Their votes will be politically binding for politicians. Cam-
paign ﬁnance will be unnecessary as well, since the
Internet will replace the need for television advertising.
Instead, web surfers will’ be drawn into politicians’ sites
according to their stance on issues.

Contact chair Elizabeth Harvey thinks the committee
deﬁnitely got a lot out of Morris’ $5,000 fee. He even ﬂew
coach.

“I’m really excited so many people came and they
weren’t disappointed,” Harvey said. “There was so much
Q&A it was virtually a talk show. He was the most dy-
namic and entertaining speaker we’ve had yet this year.”

Freshman Matt Dougherty was impressed as well.

“He was more entertaining than I thought he’d be,”
Dougherty said. “A more ‘off-the-cuff’ speaker than I ex-
pected.”

Idaho hits
state news

Regional media pick
up on W&L melee,
question reputation

,EC/SJC elections closely contested

By Max Smith

NEWS EDITOR

>( Some heated Executive Committee and Student Judicial

‘f

Council elections came to an end this week. 21 students vied
for 12 EC and SJC positions, prompting run-offs in every cat-
egory but the 2003 class representative for SJ C, won by
Kempton Presley.

The high number of candidates came as no surprise to Emily
Ramey, chair ofthe Voter Regulations Board.

“We worked hard to increase the number of people who ran
for EC and SJC positions,” Ramey said. The Board increased

by campus awareness through the number of campus notices, signs

and word of mouth.

The result was a tight race in almost every category.

- “Because every race was so close, we counted everything
twice,” Ramey said.

New 2001 EC Representative Anna Baker had never run for
office at W&L before last week. Baker decided to run when no
other women were set to run. She also saw an opportunity to
change the way the EC operated.

it “I plan on re-evaluating the true purpose of the Honor Code

Or

by focusing not on whether a student could see that test six
desks away, but if they had that intent,” Baker said. “I want to

get to the true feeling behind the action, not whether or not it .

could have occurred.”

Baker thinks that her sex played a factor in her election.

“Being a female had a lot to do with my election,” Baker
said. “People thought it might be an all-male committee and
they wanted to even out the odds.”

W&LIFE:

The Big Five winners:
EC president —— John Comly ’01

SJ C chair-- Jordan Ginsberg ’01
SJC secretary —— Juliet Berry ’O1

SJ C — Jason Ward
SJ C —— Melissa Palombo

SJ C — Kempton Presley

THE ENVELOPE PLEASE. . .

EC vice president — Rob Naﬁel ’O2
EC secretary —— Carling Dinkler ’O2

Representatives for the classes of. . .
2001 : EC — Anna Baker & Tyler J orgensen

2002: EC —— Liz Nacozy & Marshall Schutt

2003: EC —— Catie Caldwell & Will Coffrnan

C-‘I112 iliiltg-111111  March 20,2000

OPINION: SPORTS:

By Max Smith

NEWS EDITOR

The Idaho Mock Convention T-shirts
and the controversy surrounding them
has gone statewide.

On Sat, March 1 1, The Roanoke Times
ran a story on the T-shirt in their Virginia
section. The story has also been cov-
ered in The Daily News Leader of
Staunton and The Daily Progress of
Charlottesville.

The Times article points out that even
though very few shirts were printed, and
almost no one has seen them, the con-
troversy has “managed to offend every
minority and gender-based organization
on campus as well as the whole faculty.”

The article went on to point out the
T-shirt doesn’t help W&L project its de-
sired minority-friendly image.

“At a time when W&L is working to
address minority students’ concerns and
its reputation as a place where the Old
South is still revered, the shirt and its
creators triggered a landslide of resent-
ment.”

The T-shirt features a caricature of a
busty black woman in a skimpy red dress
and high—heeled boots over the phrase
‘‘I DA HO.”

University Spokesman Brian Shaw told
The Times, “I regret that an incident like
this caused us to have this conversation.
On the other hand, it’s a conversation
we need to have.”

Assistant Dean of Students Dean Penn
told The Times that the wholeincident re-
ﬂects a larger problem on campus.

“The ‘I DA HO’ T-shirt is only a symp-
tom of a larger need to better educate the
community to respect others,” Penn said.

University President John Elrod re-
sponded to the whole affair in a letter this
week.

“The Idaho T-shirt incident. . . contra-
dicts what this University stands for and
never should have occured or. this cam-
pus,” Elrod wrote. “We can and must do
better. Life on this campus should not be
a burden for any student.”

One Acts highlight
student run productions

PAGE 3

Idaho, Idaho,
we got Idaho

PAGE 4

Baseball grabs their first
ODAC victory

, ' photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Editor
RIDE M CowBOY.: Freshman Zach Fake could be seen all last week

around campus dressed for the closing days of pledgeship.

PAGES 5

 

MARCH 20, 2000

.9‘

photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Editor
HE’s READING YOUR MIND: Entertainer Craig Karges made his second W&L appearance Friday
night to an excellent turnout, and a receptive audience. He is shown herd guessing a person’s
identity from their dog’s first name and their mother’s maiden name. .

KAPPA DELTA SHAMROCK PROJECT

SUNDAY, MARCH 26TH
BENEFITS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR PREVENTION OF CHILD ABUSE
AND PROJECT HORIZON

3 ON 3
BASKETBALL
TOURNAMENT!
CASH PRIZES
OFFERED!

SIGN-UPS IN FRONT OF
THE CO—OP DURING
THE DAY, AND AT D-

HALL DURING DINNER

TIL MARCH 22ND

Most L students Lave

Basetl on wet eon: Survev
data from 1998,1999

Funded Irv a grant from

I so

Virginia Ilenartment of
Alcoholic Beverage control

 

E-mail General Notes to 
" wlu.edu "

 

Technology exam offered

How can you stand out among the liberal arts gradu-
ates seeking internships and jobs in Information Age? One
way is to take Tek.Xam, an examination designed by ex-
perts in business and higher education. The examination
will be offered free of charge at Washington and Lee Uni-
versity from 5-10 p.m. on Tuesday, April, 18.

Tek.XaIn is an information technology certiﬁcation exam
that tests and certiﬁes liberal arts students on computer
literacy and information technology skills desired by em-
ployers. These skills include the operation of technology;
retrieving, interpreting, and presenting information; and
legal and ethical issues in the use of technology. Created
by the Virginia Foundation for Independent Colleges (V FIC)
and recognized by a growing list of prominent employers,
the Tek.XaIn credential provides a way for college stu-
dents to demonstrate their mastery of technology applica-
tions and problem-solving tools. The Tek.Xam credential
is awarded to those who attain a passing score in each of

. the skill areas of the on-line test.

W&L students can register for the April 18 test by e-
mailing Earl Edwards (ete@wlu.edu) with the following in-
formation: name, local address, phone number, e-mail ad-
dress, major ﬁeld of study, expected date of graduation. A
limited number of seats are available for the test. The dead-
line for registration is 4:30 p.m. Friday, April 7.

For more information about Tek.XaIn visit the following
web sites: www.wlu.edu/computing/students/tekxam.htInl

“Being John Malkovich” in Lex

The Washington and Lee Film society will conclude its
Winter schedule with the very unusual and very success-
ﬁll “Being John Malkovich” (USA, 1999), directed by Spike
Jonze.

Screenings will be at 7:30 p.m. on Friday and Saturday,
March 24,and 25, in the Troubadour Cinema. As always,
there is no charge for admission, although contributions
are welcome. This film is in English, and is rated “R” by the
Motion Picture Association of America.

“Being John Malkovich” is undoubtedly one of the most
original, creative and richly entertaining ﬁhns in recent
years. An eccentric street puppeteer (John Cusack) dis-
covers a portal that leads directly into the head of actor
John Malkovich (played by John Malkovich). This out-
landish premise is only the beginning —— the ﬁlm contin-
ues to wittily astonish and surprise.

Critic Roger Ebert writes than “every once in a long,
long while a movie comes along that is like no othera movie
that creates a new world for us and uses it to produce
wonderful things.” This film is nominated for three Acad-
emy Awards, including Best Director and Best Original
Screenplay, with the awards to be announced Monday
evening. ., ,  r. ..

W&L holds national theater program

Washington and Lee University will hold the fourth Na-
tional Symposium on Theater in Academe from Thursday,
March 23 through Saturday, March 25. The program brings ,t
together scholars from colleges and universities across the
country who use theater as a means of teaching.

Domnica Radulescu, associate professor of romance lan-
guages at W&L, is the director and organizer of the event
and says that it often brings together “theater fanatics try- ‘
ing to bridge the gap between education and theater.”

Radulescu has been using theater as a way of enhanc-
ing her teaching for a number of years and began talking to
colleagues at other institutions who were doing the same.
She gathered them together on the W&L campus for the l‘
fnst time in 1995.

For more information, contact Radulescu at 463-8030.

Zen.Priest to give demonstration is

Noted Zen priest Fukushima Keido, head of one of
Japan’s leading Zen temples, will visit Washington and
Lee on Tuesday, March 28. He will speak at 4 p.m. in the
auditorium of duPont Hall, in a visit sponsored by the East‘
Asian Studies Program at W&L. ‘ '

Fukushima is the chief abbot of Tofukuji, a temple in
Kyoto, Japan that is the main temple of one particular
branch of Zen Buddhism. He is regarded as a master of
Zen, and his wisdom and guidance are therefore soughtv
out by many practitioners of Zen in Japan. Among his
activities is an annual trip to several centers in the United
States, and, aﬁer an initial visit in 1996, this year he returns
to Lexington.

His lecture will include comments about Zen Buddhism,‘
and will conclude with a demonstration of Japanese callig-
raphy. Calligraphy in the context of Zen is often noted for
its bold display of swiftly executed, abbreviated brush-
work in monochrome ink. Calligraphy is used in Zen Bud-1
dhism usually to brush a relevant word or phrase on a
vertical hanging scroll that will be hung in a room used for
meditation in the temple.

USSO to perform Moussorgsky

Critics and audiences alike are consistent in their praise
for Thomas Pandolﬁ’s dramatic, yet sensitive style of pi-
ano playing. “A pianist who will clearly bear watching,”
declares The Washington Post. “An artist who is the mas-V
ter of both the grand gesture and the sensual line.”

Pandolﬁ will join the 75-member Washington and Lee
University-Shenandoah Symphony Orchestra on Saturday,
March 25 at 8 p.m. in a performance of Edvard Grieg’s popu-Y
lar Piano Concerto in A minor at the Lenfest Center.

Moussorgsky’s ground-breaking piano masterpiece,
Pictures at an Exhibition, inspired by the creations of his
friend Victor Hartmann, an artist and architect, consists of
10 miniature masterpieces. 1

Barry Kolman, associate professor of music, conducts
the University-Shenandoah Symphony Orchestra, which
is free to the public. An exhibition of original student art
works, sponsored by the Art Department, will be presented
in the lobby of the Lenfest,Center. 

P
‘ l

like this today.

TIAA-CREF delivers impressive results like these by
combining two disciplined investment strategies.

In our equity accounts, for example, we combine
active management with enhanced indexing. With two
strategies, we have two ways to seek out

performance opportunities—he|ping to make your

investments work twice as hard.

EXPENSE RATIO Combine this with our low
mmwm mousm expenses and you'll see how
EQUIJIES AVERAGE

TIAA-CREF stands apart from

o.37“ 1.92“

the competition.

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.""'

Life Insurance Coissue insurance and annui1ies.11AA-CREF Trust Company, FSB ,
2000 TIAA-CREF 1/00.

While TIAA-[REF I
invests for the long term,
it's nice to see performance

   

r
  INSUFIANEE MUTUALFUNDS THUSTSEBVIEES  

7‘

 

1!
35 05'” 22 02% 18 75””
. . .1‘, 1
ASC)1F\iE2/Dill/99 rsérlriifrrss '°"”°Es'r”r‘5§a""°"
With over $250 billion in assets, we're the world's largest
retirement company and the leading choice on M
America's campuses. If that sounds good to
you, consider this number I 800-342-2775. Call and find
out how TIAA-CREF can work for you today i
and tomorrow.
wt
1800 842-2775   r

www.tiaa-tref.org

‘l.The investment results shown for the CREF variable annuity reflect past performance and are not indicative of future rates of return.These returns and the value of the principal you

have invested will ﬂuctuate, so the shares you own may be more or less than their original price upon redemption. Foreign stock markets are sub‘ect to additional risks from changing V
currency values, interest rates, government regulations, and political and economic conditions. 2. YIAA-CREF expenses are sub’

Source: Morningstar, Inc. 12/31/99,tracking 279 world stock mutual funds.‘nAA{REF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes CREF certiﬁcates and interests in the TIM Real
Estate Account.Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the variable component of the personal annuities, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements.TIAA and TIAA{REF
, ides trust services. Investment
untied. For more complete Information on CREF, including charges and expenses, call I 800 842-2776,ext. 5509, for the prospectus. Read it carefully before you invest or send rnoney_o

ect to change an are not guaranteed for the future. 3.

products am not FDIC Insured. may lose value and are not bank guar-

 

 

I
E

i

i

x.
Y yl
I l /9 ﬁatwaexd 79”‘/few/Q’
 9" TTR6¢- kﬁe “J @990 
\
m3‘\\l:E\T\—\*&@ WM W9?"
(Oz
r \a ‘.
V 3

‘ MARCH 20, 2000

Just for a little variety this week, we here at The Phi
thought that we would try to include something on this

£ " page that does not have to do with Idaho. So, we thought,

what else has been going on here in our little world? Surely
there must be something beyond the boundaries of Idaho?
And then the answer came. It came early last Tuesday
morning when the entire University was forced to awaken
just a little earlier than usual.
The Phi Beta Kappa convention.
Why on earth must the collective W&L schedule shift
various times each year in order to accommodate a select
‘( bunch" of students (read: the Nerd Herd). It’s like our staff
autonomously declaring that every Monday classes will
not be held before 3 p.m., because of the sleep this lovely
publication deprives us of every Sunday evening.
_ _ In fact, that’s not a bad damn idea. We’ll get back to
‘ you on that one.

OPINION
W&L must return to
honor, civility and respect

 Staff Editorial

As far as Phi Beta Kappa, ODK, and all the other little
we-need-more-Greek-letters-associated-with-our-Roman-
nurneraled-names associations who continually don’t in-
vite us to join, we have a simple suggestion: if your grades
are so wonderﬁil that you got in in the first place, chances
are you can afford to miss a class or two.

Nobody else goes to your little convention, nobody
cares what fascinating (read: not fascinating) speaker they
got this year to speak on the scintillating (read: self-con-
gratulatory) virtue of being academically superior to the
rest of the Free World. You do. Therefore, we’ 11 just write
you a hall pass, and you can go without fear of detention.

' We’re not going until we get the little engraved invita-
tions and keys and whatever other fun paraphernalia y’all
get.

Besides, we obviously need every second we can get in
the classroom.

‘ ‘ I00.‘
I” POL - ' \

 

lVAHo

 
  

tuote of the week:
{I

He is about as cool as
I gonorrhea on a hot July day

Jr —— Random guy at the Palm’s

2}

Please submit Letters
to the Editor to The
Ring-tum Phi

Drop off in the University Center room 208

(‘Litre ﬂing-tum lﬂhi

Executive Editor
Associate Editor

News Editor

Opinions Editor
W&Life Editor

Sports Editor

Photo Editor

Assistant Photo Editors

Polly Doig

Michael Crittenden
Max Smith
Stephanie Bianco
Elianna Marziani
Steele Cooper
Emily Barnes
Tiffany Friedel
Lisa Lin

David Hanson

Layout Editor Neal Willetts

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wIu.edu/-phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

 

LETTER To THE EDITOR

Students should not be asked
to “get over” Idaho T-shirt

Dear Editor,

I have officially reached my boiling point! Recently the
minority and women students of Washington & Lee Univer-
sity were violated by the production of a hoirendously of-
fensive shirt. This shirt, worn by the Idaho delegation, de-
picted a scantily clad black woman with bestial facial and
body features. Above the picture read, “I -da-ho”. We are all
well aware that the women and minority students of this
university have taken action against those who were re-
sponsible for this incident. It is the backlash of this action
that has particularly ﬁustrated me.

There was an opinion published that told all those who
were offended by the shirt to just simply “get over it”. Well,
aren’t we just a model of rational thought. We should take
incidents like this and brush them off as “jokes”. It is this
type of sentiment that pervades the consciousness of some
white W&L students. It is this type of student who also
says things like “you wouldn’t be here if you weren’t black”.
Both of these sentiments are devoid of any consideration of
the entire story. How can you pass judgement on another
person’ s sensitivity, if you have not tried to understand what
it means to be that person?

People that ﬁt into this category seem to think that this
country is equal with respect to race relations. This is why
they have the audacity to say things such as “Get over it” or
“You are only her because you are black”. Do they think that
the end of the Civil Rights Movement meant that everything
was equal? Let’s first think about the ramifications of the
“Original Violation”, slavery. So as not to lose you, I will
proceed slowly. Let’s first agree upon on how long slavery
existed, roughly 400 years. Let’s also assume that a new
generation was born to each family, during this time, roughly
every 20 years. What does that leave us with? Yes, all you
math majors, 20 generations of slaves. I didn’t even think it

TALKBACK.

President Elrod addresses
the Idaho T-shirt incident

Dear Members of the Washington and Lee Family:

Washington and Lee is a community that for a very long
time has been shaped by the core
values of honor, respect for others

 

PAGE 3

casionally ﬁnd themselves singled out in class, not as indi-
viduals, but as the stereotyped spokespersons for their
whole race. Occasionally, overt and very public slurs like
the Idaho T-shirt understandably anger these students and
indicate that we as a community still do not measure up to

the rhetoric about our core values.
We can and must do bet-
ter. Life on this campus

66

and civility. These values are of-
ten articulated in our public state-
ments about the University, in our
policies, in editorials and stories
appearing in our campus newspa-

It contradicts what this
University stands for and

should not be a burden for
any student. It should be an
occasion for intellectual and
moral growth, an expansion
of our horizons and aware-

pers, in our daily conversations, in never Should have Oc_ ness of others, an occasion
the classroom and in many other _ , for making new and lasting
places and on many other occa— Cuffed OI’1thlS campus. friendships, an opportunity

sions. They are central to our rheto-
ric about who we are and what we

to better understand and

stand for as a University. It is this

rhetoric about values and their im-

portance in our lives that distinguishes Washington and
Lee University and gives to it the special character that it
has.

The Idaho T-shirt incident contradicts these values; it
contradicts what this University stands for and never
should have occurred on this campus. This sort of vulgar,
wrong, hurtful, and offensive image conveys to our black
and female students that they are second class citizens on
this campus.

This incident of incivility and disrespect is the third of
its kind this year alone and indicates that for some of us
these values are at best only rhetorical in nature — words
to be spoken from time to time, if that, but not lived in
relation to all persons in this community.

Life on this campus for our minority students is not
easy. Being in a minority never is, but being in a minority
on this campus, given the values that guide us, should not
be the difficulty it often is.

Take, as an example, being a black student. Without
thinking we say things that are hurtful and offensive to or
within earshot of these fellow students. They often endure
verbal or written and social slights that make them feel
unwelcome and uncomfortable on this campus. They oc-

’ , care for people who are dif-
ferent from ourselves.

I am grateful for the
faculty’s strong statement provoked by the Idaho T-shirt
incident. Its call for a more inclusive community is power-
fully stated. I am as grateful that it created a nine person
Task Force to improve the quality of life for all minority
students. I am grateful that the trustees last spring created
a committee under the leadership of three trustees, Tom
Shepherd, A. C. Hubbard and William Hill to examine from
top to bottom the quality of life for minority students on
this campus. This Committee will now be advised and sup-
ported by the faculty Task Force, while the Task Force also
gives these issues its own consideration. The administra-
tion welcomes recommendations from the Shepherd Com-
mittee and the Task Force and will rely upon both as well as
student leaders for assistance in implementing them.

We must put this hurtful incident behind us, as we must
put before us the challenge it has left in its wake. I ask each
of you to join me in an honest and concerted effort to make
this community as good as its rhetoric by becoming a com-
munity which makes every one of its students feel truly
welcome and at home here.

Sincerely,

John W. Elrod

was that much, but let’s take this further. How long has it
been since blacks were given equal rights under the law?
Well, if I use my fingers, I get roughly 30 years. It is impor-
tant to emphasize that we were only given equal rights un-
der the law. We still do not experience equal rights in other
facets of life. I will explain this later so as not to accelerate
the pace of enlightenment. So we have now calculated that
there have been 1 .5 generations of equality. Wow! Do people
think that you can actually undo 400 years of damage only
by doing work for 3 .75 percent of the time you spent bleed-
ing us for free labor? (Northemers should not be exempt
from this responsibility because of the lack of effectiveness
of Reconstruction) Instead of thinking that everything is
equal, maybe you should realize that you still have 370 years
of hard labor in “40 Acres and a Mule Federal Penitentiary”.

Now that we understand that there is no way to currently
have this “equality”, we must turn to its effects. Once upon
a time, many wise people got togetherand thought up this
wonderful idea of affirmative action. It was created to help
those who would otherwise have no opportunity to pursue
the American dream.

If a person comes from a family that consists of people
who have never gone to college and do not have the neces-
sary skills to survive in this society; they would be given
assistance. When we give this member of the family a chance
to be educated in the same way whites are, they should be
able to function in society. That ability to function would
then pass to his son or daughter; they would be able to
afford books or a computer, both of which help mankind
educate themselves. Therefore, the country would not have
to shell out billions of dollars in welfare to keep millions of
heads above water.

It is not enough to simply be hardworking in this coun-
try. There are plenty of people who would work a minimum
wage job if they could actually support themselves with
that income. This is why we have affirmative action. So you
should now know why I find it offensive when people say
things like “You are only here because you are black”. The
fact is, there are people in this country who are poor and

 

“Isn’t there anything else going
on at W&L?”
— Matt OBrion ‘O1

 

“It’s the tip of the iceberg for
underlying issues.”
— Lauren LaFauci ’Ol

uneducated onlybecause. they ,are.,black. So maybe you
should “Get Over It”.

On to the definition of a joke, which you had a ball pa-
tronizing us with. Thanks but no thanks. It’s my turn. Let me
start by asking this question: When another person decides
to laugh about a very negative quality in you, what do you
do? (a) write an opinion article on how funny that joke was
(b) feel a little upset because you were the butt of a nasty
joke (c) ask Webster what a joke is? I should apologize here
because this is a trick question. The answer is (b) and (c).
The problem with this situation is that people are laughing
at you. They’re having a good time at your expense. Should
we expect you to laugh with them? Therefore we should
have eliminated (a). By process of elimination we are left
with (b) and (c). Minorities would simply answer (b), but
since you never had the word joke on a vocabulary test in
high school, you should also answer (c). I would assume
that this type of thought process would be “common sense,”
but you know what they say about people who “assume.”

It is a very cruel world for minorities in this country so
you should understand why we are sensitive to attacks.
This country has worn our armor down over a period of 500
years. So don’t expect me to laugh about any more so-called
jokes, because you won’t see any smiles, all you will see is

anger reddening my face. In a half-century, or so, you will be
the minority and I will not have forgotten my anger. It will
invigorate me at that old age. If you want equality, as I do,
there will be no more jokes, no more patronizing opinion
articles, and no more ignorance. You should take these con-
siderations into account and not tell me to “get over” any-
thing, ever again!

Sincerely,

Toussaint Crawford ’03

Editor ’s Note: The "get over it" article referred to in
this letter did not use the phrase “you are only here
because you are black” or any phrase with that
connotation

What do you think about
" the Idaho T-shirt uproar?

 

“The response was drastically
blown out of proportion.”
-— Ryan Truax ’Ol

 

 

“I’m so sick ofit.”
——Jean Rowan ‘O1

 

 

PAGE 4

W&I§

he Tiling-tum lﬂhi

IFE  

 

MARCH 20, 2000

UJHQSSG

C5 en
701

By Eliarma Marziani
F EA TURES EDITOR

Some people spend years adjust-
ing to a new country and new cul-
ture. Not so with Vanessa Chen, a
junior from Toronto, Canada. A

at Washington and Lee University.

“I came as a prospective and I
had a lot of ﬁm,” she said. “I looked
at a lot of schools on the east coast,
and I liked this one the best. It has
a really good journalism school, and

school in the South was just really
different than anything I would
have had going to school at home,
so I thought that the change of pace
would be really interesting.”

The main difference that she has
found between the United States
and Canada has been in the atti-
tudes of the people.

“People are a lot more liberal and
open-minded in Canada,” she said.
“They’re not all freaky Republicans.”

Nevertheless, she has gotten

A « used to life here and is working on

ﬁnding her niche. She decided to
graduate early because, as she said,
“I just came to the conclusion I
didn’t want to be an undergrad any-
more. I wanted to get on to ﬁlm
school or grad school or work.”
She hopes to continue her edu-
cation at a school like UCLA or
USC. She is well on her way with
the incredible internships that she
has had the opportunity to take.
Last summer, Chen interned with
the Jim Henson Company, best
known for its productions such as
“Sesame Street” and “The Muppet
Show.” Chen, searching for an in-
ternship, went to their web site, saw
that they had aniinternship pro-
gram, applied, and was accepted.
“I’ve always been a big fan of
“Sesame Street,” and working there
just seemed like it would be a lot of
fun,” she said. “It was a kid’s dream
come true.”

SIGNATURE STUDENT

    

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

Chen interned in the children’s
programming and development de-
partment, the department respon-
sible for coming up with ideas for
shows and movies. Far from being
a typical photocopying, ﬁling, cof-
fee-making intern, Chen was able

in negotiations to buy the rights to
one of those books,” she said.
Having enjoyed her taste of pro-
fessional life last summer, Chen
plans on targeting a different audi-
ence this summer. She will be work-

ferences. Once a month I get to go
to a premiere,” she said.

While neither of these intem-
ships were_paid, she gets college
credit and priceless work experience
for them. At W&L, she gets addi-
tional experience through her ma-
jors. She is the director of The
Saint Valentine’s Day Massacre,
one of the One Acts 2000 perfor-
mances opening in the Lenfest
Center on March 23.

Eventually, she hopes to be a
ﬁlm producer out of Los Angeles.

“All the internships that I’ve
done have been in L.A., and that’s
just the best place for what I want
to do,” she said.

Q: What is your favorite movie?

A: “Swimming With Sharks,
with Frank Whaley and Kevin
Spacey — it’s just sick, disturbing
and hilarious.”

Q: When you were little, what
did you want to be when you grew
up?

A: “The Incredible Hulk, or
Wonder Woman.”

Q: What’s the best part of be-
ing a j—school major?

A: “The candy dish in Melissa
Cox’s office.”

Q: Who is your hero, and why?

A: “My mom. She has just made
a lot of sacriﬁces for me, and she’s
just an incredibly strong lady.”

Apparently, her daughter takes
aﬁer her.

 

 

 

Students o it all in just One Act

One Acts 2000: Seven student/directors
take control of the Lenfest Center

By Eliarma Marziani
F154 TURES EDITOR

Armed students have not violently
invaded Lenfest Center and demanded
control. Rather, it is that time of year,
when students take over every aspect
of theater production and present their
masterpieces to the entire community:
One Acts 2000.

One Acts 2000 is a compilation of
seven one-act, student-directed plays.

These directing students spent fall
term deciding on a play to direct, the
first half of winter term researching that
particular play, and the second half
bringing it all together. The student
directors were responsible for all ar-

. . _ rangements including casting, sched- on a conﬂict between the
fomer my Henson cgmpany mtem’ to gf“ Involved and See some of uling, scenery, lighting, and costum- two. That conﬂict reveals
pI'0SpCCtlVC  Intern, and 3 her ldeas come allve.  a a between them 
double major inprimjoumalism and “I had read a couple of books gI’rofessor J D Martinez has super neged)s to be bridged
:11:;t:rr’a::::ngf1%: c%ar::uC:t1::;:s 1:26 (S)l(l)I:If:1)‘r)'r_rt\};aSthIotv1v1S°u2§:; vised and advised the students, but Senior Johnny Bubb
Successfun thrust herseif into life g ’ the bulk of the responsibility has been decided to direct a bizarre

y at the end ofthe summer they were theirs. Their success will be judged as play by Tina Howe, aptly

the play; open Thursday night. The
One Acts is a more than 27-year old
theater tradition, and this year’s rep-
ertoire doesn’t seem likely to disap-
point the high expectations set by
years past.

directed by Washington and Lee Uni-
versity junior Vanessa Chen. Chen de-

scribed the plot, “Every year, these two
ex-lovers meet on Valentine’s Day.
This year’s meeting takes an extremely
bizarre twist. . .“

Junior Francis McWilliams also
chose to direct a comedy, Foreplay,
or the Art of the Fugue, by David Ives
which he describes as, “Chuck has
only three things on his mind, mak-
ing a nice shot, keeping score and
getting it in the hole —— the seduc-
tive art of miniature golf, that is, or is
it?” ’

Junior Ryan Truax directs Nenna
Beber’s Misreadings, a
more serious play about
a student/teacher rela-
tionship, which focuses

named Teeth. Bubb said
of its plot, “In a routine
visit to the dentist, a
woman reveals her deep-
est fears to him, whose
characteristics and ac-

Walsh, is directed by se-
nior Patrick Driscoll. The

play is set in 1912 Dublin and tells the
story of James Joyce who wants to
immortalize Molly Bloom in his writ-
ing, and the incredible lengths he
needs to go to in order to gain her con-
sent.

Junior Zeenie Ginwalla will be di-
recting Tony Kushner’s Reverse Tran-
scription, a dark comedy telling the
tale of six playwrights who broke into
a cemetery to bury another.

For Whom the Southern Belle Tolls
is a Christopher Durang parody di-
rected by junior Juliann Ulin. “The play
is a parody on Tennessee Williams’
The Glass Menagerie and takes a hi-
larious look at the efforts of a South-
ern belle mother clinging to her ‘charm

and vivacity’ to marry off her hypo-
chondriac son to a feminine caller,”
she said.

The-directors have had a busy year
preparing for this event, and hope for
a good turnout. They have enjoyed
the experience, though.

“It has been so incredibly easy for
me because my actors [Colin Tate and
Cassie Ritter] are so professional, and
my stage manager [Brook deRosa] is
just making life so easy on me,” said
Chen. “I feel that I haven’t done work
at all on it!”

Act One opens Thursday night at
8 p.m., and Act Two opens Friday night
at 8 p.m. No tickets are required for
these performances.

 

I :::e‘:; ttglgiuzasliogggﬁliglf  mg for HBO” Media Relations De’ The program is split into two acts, tions closely resemble

TN . y’ ’ partmem‘ , _ _ each of which has its own night. those of a mad scientist.”

15 3 great liberal 3115 0011689, and “A lot of it Will involve being on Act one Actlawo,

it s really hardto find one of those set for productions. Some of it will The St. Valentine ,s Day Massacre’ Molly and James’ a I photo comm Sum wager
"1 Canada’ Gomg to a really small ha“? to be Preparing for Press 0011' written by Allan Knee, is a comedy comedy written by sheila Dentist Dr. Rose (sophomore Scott Gray) and patient Amy (freshman

Mary Carol Mazza) begin an extraordinary dental visit in Teeth, one of
seven student directed one act plays to be featured in One Acts 2000.

TOYOTA-l Oi

MORE VALUE/LESS MONEY §

INTKODUCING THEALLNEW

TOYOTA ECHO

THERE’5 AN ECHO OUT THERE! Great looks on the outeide, great room on the ineide.

Cruise the highway at 40 Ml’G'...vcry thrifty. Power? Plenty! it’s a 1.5 liter hi—tech

16 valve DOCH engine with variable valve timing (new) that kicke ou1:lO8 horsepower

any time you want it. And heat of all, Echo ie the loweet priced Toyota!

 

Academic couple seeks
Egg Donor 21-28

for East Coast clinic.
Compensation $12,000.
Outstanding SATs and
academics, analytical,
even-tempered, dark hair
and eyes, olive complex-
ion, even-featured, 5’ 7”
or taller, and leanlathletic
build. Please describe mo-
tivation along wlseveral
[returnable] photos to:

1

 

Now an thru Toyota Motor Credit helpe those with limited

credit hietory buy or leaee a new Echo or Celica. See dealer for details. PCB 22

West Kingston, RI 02892

r @ TOYOTA real values. everyday.—-I www_g51;-[;Oy01;a_COm V All seriousreplies answered

‘EPA estimated 32/39 City/Hwy automatic, 34/41 City/Hwy manual.

A

l

h

MARCH 20, 2000

S

@112 Iatng-tum lﬂlrt

PORTS

PAGE 5

No. 5 men’s lacrosse rebounds with two wins on week

By Brendan Harrington

STAFF WRITER

The ﬁfth-ranked Washington and Lee men’s lacrosse
team completed their tour of the Centennial Conference this
week by posting wins over Dickinson and Franklin &
Marshall.

On Saturday aﬁemoon the Generals downed Franklin &
Marshall 17-10 in Lancaster, Pa. Junior attackrnan Bernie
Norton scored four goals and two assists to lead the Gener-
als, while juniors Matt Dugan and Pope Hackney each added
four goals.

“I thought we played pretty well both offensively and
defensively,” Norton said. “We just had a few mental lapses
that can be easily corrected.”

Senior attackman Chris Brown Brown notched three goals,

and senior attackman Colin Dougherty had one goal and four
assists, as the Generals really spread it around on oﬂ°ense.

“There’s a whole bunch of us on offense that have a lot
of experience,” Norton said. “Whether it’s me or Pope or
Dugan, someone is going to get it done each game.”

The Generals (5-1) struck ﬁrst just 34 seconds into the
contest when Brown scored off an assist from Dougherty.
The Diplomats (1-3) tied the contest 1-1 with 8:39 left in the
first quarter, but just 5 1 seconds later Bernie Norton put the
Generals ahead for good by scoring his first goal of the day.

The Generals ledjust 4-2'at the end of the first quarter,
but W&L took control of the game in the second quarter by
scoring seven goals en route to a 1 1-5 halﬁime lead.

Dugan opened the second half with back-to-back goals
to give W&L what turned out to be their biggest lead of the
game at 13-5. From there W&L coasted to the victory.

Junior goalie Wes Hays made seven saves for the Gen-
erals and F&M’s Bob Michel and David Kahn combined
to stop 14 W&L shots. The Generals outshot the Diplo-
mats 47- 19.

The Generals posted their first shutout in seven years
when they defeated Dickinson 23-0 at Wilson Field on
Wednesday afternoon.

Brown tallied a career-high nine points for W&L as he
scored six goals and added three assists. The Generals
outshot the Red Devils 78-7 in producing their first shutout
since a 23-0 win over Shenandoah in 1993.

The Generals led 14-0 at the half and rested their regulars
during the second half, but still came away with the 23-goal
victory.

Attackmen Andrew Jones and Dugan each scored three
goals for the Generals, while junior Wes Hays combined

The Generals fall to Franklin
& Marshall 10-6, but re-

bound with a home win over
ODAC foe Lynchburg

The Franklin & Marshall women's lacrosse team
handed Washington and Lee its second loss of the sea-
son on Saturday, downing the visiting Generals by a 10-6
margin.

F&M jumped out to an early 2-0 lead before W&L
could tally a goal. Sophomore Courtenay Fisher got the
Generals on the board with an unassisted goal at the 22:22
mark of the first half. Freshmen Laura Wilson and Leslie
Bogart then tallied goals just :44 seconds apart to give W&L
what proved to be its only lead of the contest at 3-2.

The Diplomats rallied, scoring the final three goals of
the first half for a 5-3 lead at the break.

F&M continued its streak at the onset of the second
half, notching the first two goals for a 7-3 lead. W&L senior
Katherine Riddle connected for two second half goals, but
the Generals could never climb back into the game.

For the game, the Diplomats outshot W&L by a count
of 22-2 1 . W&L senior Ginny Jemigan tallied 12 saves in
goal to help keep the Generals within striking distance.
Kim Kelly and Laura Fine led F&M with three goals apiece.

Junior attacker Ellen Ritsch tallied two goals less than
one minute apart to break a 3-3 deadlock with 11:08 re-
maining and propel the Washington and Lee women's
lacrosse team to a 5-3 victory over visiting Lynchburg
College on Wednesday.

Lynchburg jumped to an early 1-0 lead when sopho-
more Jodi Graul netted an unassisted goal just 8:46 into
the contest. W&L quickly answered, however, as Fisher
connected for two unassisted goals, giving the Generals
a 2-1 lead entering the halftime break.

W&L (3-2, 2-1 ODAC) increased its lead to 3-1 just :52

More up and down for women’s lacrosse

RUN LOLA, RUN: Sophomore Courtenay Fisher ﬂys by during W&L’s win over Lynchburg on Wednesday.

seconds into the second half when freshman Laura Wilson
scored off an assist from senior Katherine Riddle. The Hornets
retaliated, eventually tying the contest at 3-3 on an Erin Campbell
goal with 13 :40 remaining in regulation. With the score knotted,
Ritsch ﬁred home the garne-winner at the 1 1 :08 mark, giving the
Generals a 4-3 lead. Her second goal came just :55 seconds later.

Photo by Tiffany Friedel/Assistant Photo Editor

Senior Ginny Jemigan had a stellar game in goal for
. W&L, stopping 1 5 Hornet shots. Lynchburg also received
a solid effort from its netrninder as sophomore J en
McHugh produced 14 saves.
W&L hosts Mary Washington at 2 p.m on Saturday.
—Courtesy of Sports Information

with freshman Brandon Ross and senior Dan Grattan to get .

the shutout in goal.’

Norton says it can be easy to look right past weaker
opponents like Dickinson and F&M, but in the end the team
stays focused.

“The coaches and the captains make sure we don’t look
past these games,” Norton said. “We know we have to play
it one game at a time.”

The Generals are now 3-1 against teams from the Centen-
nial Conference, with wins against Washington College,
Dickinson and F&M. The Generals only loss of the season
was a 6-4 loss to Gettysburg last Sunday.

“I think we’re over the Gettysburg loss,” Norton said.
“There’s not much we can do unless we meet them in the
playoffs. But it was a positive week and Coach Stagnitta
was happy with what went on.”

Baseball gets their. . .

First ODAC Win

By Mike Weil

STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee baseball team split a double
header with Hampden Sydney Saturday to earn their first
ODAC win of the season, and contribute to a 4-1 week.

The Generals opened up the week on Tuesday with an 8-
3 blowout over Mary Washington. Freshman sensation
Michael Hanson hurled a complete game six-hitter while
smashing two home runs. Hanson’s older brother, David,
went 2-for-4 on the day, as did senior Schuyler Marshall and
sophomore Matt Kozora. Marshall also added two RBIs.

Saturday brought the Generals their first ODAC victory
as they opened up the double header with Hampden Sydney
with a 4-2 victory before falling 1-0 in the nightcap. Hanson
again heated up in game one, going yard on the fnst pitch of
the game for a 1-0 lead. The Generals built their lead to 4-0 the
next inning, keyed by an RBI single by senior John Madden.
Senior righthander David Sigler tossed a complete game eight-
hitter, allowing only one earned run and striking out nine.

Senior hurler Chris Stakem pitched brilliantly in game two,
but lost in a 1-0 pitchers duel.

The Generals swept Sunday’s double header at West Vir-
ginia Tech, taking game one 3-2 and the nightcap 5-3. Hanson
pitched another complete game in game one, allowing only
three hits and no earned rims for his fifth victory of the
season. Marshall knocked in the game winning RBI in the
bottom of the seventh, scoring Hanson for W&L’s third run.

W&L righthander Kevin Swenson earned his first career
victory in game two, going 6 1/3 innings with only seven hits.

“We should have come out with two wins [Saturday],”
said Littlehale. “We couldn’t get the bats going for [Stakem].”

As for freshman star Michael Hanson?

“He works hard, and he’s just good. That’s the bottom line.”

The Generals first ODAC win was nice, but still gives
them a big hill to climb. Does Littlehale believe the Generals
can get back in the conference race?

“Hopefully. That’s all I can say about that, hopefully.”

W&L (1 1-9, 1-5 ODAC) returns to action on Wednesday
when they travel to Bridgewater for a 3 p.m. contest.

Women’s tennis coasting in ODACS, looking to nationals

By Steele Cooper
SPOR Ts EDITOR

Washington and Lee’s women’s tennis has gone looking
'or some competition outside of the Old Dominion Athletic
Zonference.

The Generals defeated Virginia Wesleyan and Mary
Vashington both 9-0 on Sunday. The win over VWU was
~ne more in a string of cursory beatings that the tennis team
as handed to ODAC opponents, but the win over MWC
ignaled promising times ahead for the regional force.

“It really was an amazing win,” said head coach Cinda
tankin. “They’re a powerhouse in the South. We’ve beaten
hem before, but never really handed them a drumming like

his before,”

W&L has not dropped a single match in their 10-0 streak
aver ODAC foes. Wednesday, the Generals cruised through
Mo conference matches, beating Bridgewater and Eastern

Mennonite both 9-0 on Wednesday. Over the course of the
12 singles matches and three doubles matches, the Generals
collectively dropped only 23 games while claiming 192 on
their way to the convincing victories.

Top seeded senior Erin Eggers defeated Amy Sauder of
EMU 6-4, 6-0. That first set was the best performance by any
of the Generals’ opponents in Wednesday’s matches.

The Generals won seven shutout matches. Senior Brooke
Hartzell and freshmen Alyson Brice, Laura Bruno, Molly
Wooten, and Bonnie Goldsmith all won their singles con-
tests 6-0, 6-0.

Senior Liz Gay and sophomore Manning Willard, playing
third doubles against Bridgewater grabbed the 8-0 shutout.
The third doubles team of junior Christina Campbell and
Wooten fared just as well against EMU, winning 8-0.

Long story made short, the Generals sit high atop the
ODAC and don’t look as if they are going anywhere but up
for a long time.

'lL.\_.‘Jll._.\..__\\"_/....’...

M

EARLY WORSHIP

A contemporary Worship Service
at Lexington Presbyterian Church
8:45-9:30 a.m. in Dunlap Auditorium
Would you like to attend church, but you’re looking for

something less formal than “the usual?”

We invite you to join

195 for OUT “CW, infonnal, Early Worship service. Casual dress
1S ﬁne. We’ll be serving rolls, juice and coffee both before and
aﬁer the worship service.

on

“I don’t think we’ 11 have any problem in the ODAC,” said
Rankin. ‘‘It has been our expectation to win the ODAC.”

Friday, the women’s tennis team traveled to Charlotte to
face the Division I Forty-niners of UNCC looking for some
worthy competition. The Generals almost pulled off the up-
set against the Conference USA team, but came up short in
a 5-4 loss, bringing their overall record to 1 1-2.

The two singles wins for the Generals came from the
deep stock of talented freshman players. Freshman Erika
Proko (3) easily blew past Lauren Hastings of UNCC in
straight sets, 6-1, 6-1. Her classmate Brandi Jane Wedgewoith
(5) defeated Stacie Luders of UNCC also in straight sets, 6-
2, 6-4.

“The freshmen have really, really helped the program this
year,” said Rankin. “They have contributed so much, and
will make this program get stronger and stronger.”

In doubles play, the Generals won two of the three matches.
Sophomore Melissa Hatley and Hartzell trounced their oppo-
nents by the score of eight games to one, and sophomore
Sallie Gray Strang and Bruno won their match 8-2.

This performance against a D-1 team bodes well for the
Generals, who will host the most important tournament of
their regular season this weekend at the Fab-Five T‘oinna-
ment. W&L and the four other teams that will compete are all
ranked number 11 or higher in the nation. W&L is ranked
ninth.

This year, selection for the NCAA tournament has been
“regionalized.” Only the top two teams from each region will
be extended a bid to the national tournament. W&L, Emory,
and Sewanee are the three biggest contenders for those two
spots. The Fab-Five Tournament could give the Generals
great positioning going into the regional tournament

“Saturday [at the Fab-Five Tournament] we will play
Emory. We have to beat them to get the number one seed in
the region,” said Rankin. “This tournament is the whole
heart of our season.”

The Generals look to continue steam rolling through the
ODAC on Monday when they face Randolph-Macon
Women’s College. W&L faces number 11 Kenyon in the
opening round of the F ab-F ive Tournament on Friday.

Swimmer Hayes
competes at NCAAs

student travel.

it’s he re.

Washington and Lee junior Colin
Hayes finished ninth out of25 com-
petitors in the 200-yard butterﬂy pre-
liminaries at the NCAA Champion-
ship Meet held at Emory University.

Hayes’ time of 1:53.00 marked his
lifetime best. The top time in the
event (1151.05) was recorded byjun-
ior John Limouze of Oberlin College.

The ninth place ﬁnish guarantees
Hayes honorable mention All-
America status.

Hayes’s performance at the Grove
City Invitational on Feb. 19 was good
enough to earn the NCAA provi-
sional qualifying time in the 200-yard
butterfly. He won that event in
1:53.53. Hayes’ performance with 95
overall points at that meet also
helped the W&L men’s swim team to
a first place finish out of the seven
teams at the invitational.

Hayes is the top seed entering the
consolation ﬁnals heat.

He also earned honorable men-
tion A11-America status in the 100-
yard butterﬂy, finishing in 12th place
overall.

Hayes’ time of 50.99 in the 100-
yard butterﬂy marked his lifetime
best.

The top time in the event (48.29)
was recorded by senior Aaron Cole
of Denison University.

Hayes also ﬁnished 39th of 52
competitors in the 200-yard indi-
vidual medley, which was held on
Thursday afternoon.

Hayes’ time of 1:57.96 marked his
second-best time ever. The top time
in the event (1 :51.83) was recorded
by freshman Reed Boon of Kenyon
College.

——Courtesy of Sports Information

 

 Who  the greatest impact in the equity markets in 1999?

gigimarketiperfcrmance: An average A
      increase forlead-managed lPOsand
afsecondary offerings. 9  ‘ "  

#1 increase in market share: Largest percentage
increase in total equity underwriting volume
Versus any other firm.

CREDIT FIRST
  N www.csfb.com

