 

  

VOLUME 102, NO. 25

 

"P. ,‘;.':~:g §";,"t;*I,-.» ., I . .
, -‘}.6f‘.:.',;‘...i- G. .,_. ’ if-.r-I L,3RA;qy
‘JV!-\.>H:i\lL"-ff? are 4'. 5.5-}; UNII/easrrv

   

 

he ﬂing-tum {ﬂirt

“WE’vE BEEN COMING EVERY MONDAY FOR 102 YEARS.”

THIRD RING OF HELL, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, APRIL 1, 1066

@112 {ﬂirt

April 1,
1492

Hill ofﬁcials:
“Racism no
big deal”

See the Deans run

Girl wakes up
in own puddle

of vomit
See Gilliam 409

Double-ply
Trident
replaces toilet

paper
See Gaines
bathrooms

GCF: “The

. Hell with it”

See Jerry Falwell
after school

Independent
maintains

“own identity”
See Woods Creek

Atkins spotted
living under
BV bridge

See SAEs bring him
food

Student has
friends in
Athens,

Chapel Hill
See Cool Guy

Phi Proﬁle:
Special Forces

ofﬁcer Clahk

See definition of
Napoleonic

New Spring
term courses

announced:

SOC 248 “The Less For-
tunate: How to Talk to Your
Non-Big Four Friends”

ANTH 134 “Oakleys on
"a Rainy Day: A Study of
Non-functional Clothing”

HIST 172 “Indifference at
W&L: A Historical Perspec-
tive”

CHEM 104 “Getting the
Most for your Ecstasy Dol-
lar”

ENGN 264 “Why Are You
at W&L?”

JOUR 321 “Ethics, We
Don’ Need No Steenkin’
Ethics”

See The Phi

By Chip Furlow

STAFF WRITER

In a controversial move, the administration
banned ﬂip-ﬂops on campus Friday.

“We felt this was the right move,” said Dean
of Students David Howison. “I mean really,
there’s a line and I say we’ve crossed it.”

The move was made in response to the over-
whelming prevalence of unkempt Greek mem-
bers roaming campus.

“I’m in support of a casual classroom for the
students,” said professor of history J.D. Futch.
“But when I have guys coming in wearing a camo
hat and ﬂip-ﬂops. . . I mean, that doesn’t even
match. Who wears ﬂip-ﬂops to go hunting?”

Students gathered Friday evening to pro-
test the decision. “They tried to pull the same
sh** with Croakies last year and we beat that.
We just wanted to get out and voice our opin-
ion,” said senior Phi Kap Russell Mackin as he
ﬁlled a cup from the lukewarm keg of Natural
Light attendant at the protest. “Plus, there’s
not really anything going on tonight.” The pro-

test began to grow unruly when the keg ran out
shortly aﬂer midnight.

“All of a sudden I got this call from Dean
Howison’s house,” said Security officer J.R.
“Butch” Reynolds. “ When I arrived on the scene,
I saw about 50 students beating the sh** out of a
Honda Accord and chanting ‘Go to Hell Howison.’
It was scary. You try telling 50 frat guys to quit
beating a car.” The Accord, which, it was later de-
termined, belonged to Howison’s visiting mother-
in-law, suffered more than $6,000 in damage.

The students ended their riot by burning
Howison in effigy. Lexington police, garbed in riot
gear and pitching tear gas canisters, ﬁnally quelled
the disturbance around 2:30 a.m.

Tension had been building since the adminis-
tration announced two weeks ago that it would
sign an exclusive distribution contract with New
Balance and Patagonia.

“We’re very excited to solidify our relationship
with these campus apparell leaders,” President John
Elrod said. “This should streamline a lot of our
student’s clothing purchases. Plus, it’ll hopefully
help nip the whole Abercrombie thing in the bud.”

photo by The Biscuit

BIRKS A POOR SUBSTITUTE: Students put the beat down on Howison’s crappy car.

Administration bans ﬂip-ﬂops on campus

Controversial footwear decision sparks anti-Howison sentiment in ass—kickin’ midnight kegger and bonﬁre

LAYING DOWN THE LAW LIKE MAMA sAYs: Thomas “Baner” Bane about to open a
can o’ “whup—ass” on ﬂip-ﬂopping student offender Jessica Morton.

photo by The Biscuit

Prospective “very impressed” by W&L Alcohol use

Tradition, tailgates and Phi Psi’s third ﬂoor excite
girl; strong possibility she’ll apply, admissions says

By Ling-Ling

PHI PANDA BEAR

Prospective student Lisa Woodring was im-
pressed by the strong traditions at Washington
and Lee, sources close to her indicate.

After visiting last weekend, “She was just rav-
ing about all the tradition they have up there,”
said her mother, Judy Woodring. “The honor sys-
tem, the speaking tradition, and all those really

old brick buildings. I guess she’s just a very tradi-
tional girl.”

Besides the honor, friendliness, and neat-o ar-
chitecture, Lisa found other traditions intact at
the school.

“Yeah, she said everybody just gets wasted all
day long there,” noted Julie Thomas, a member of
Woodring’s soccer team. “Apparently they have this
tailgate thing whereeverybody dresses up and drinks
before football games. It’s a real tradition, I guess.”

Other Washington and Lee traditions
Woodring was able to participate in included wear-
ing her new black pants, puking in the Graham-
Lees toilets and pleasuring a junior Econ major in
a third floor room of the Phi Kappa Psi fraternity
house.

Thus, according to super-secret sources at ad-
missions, W&L and Woodring would seem to be
the perfect match. It seems likely that the pro-
spective will choose to attend W&L.

“Yeah, she wants to go somewhere with a lot
of brick buildings and ivy, and she didn’t get into
Dartmouth, so I guess it’s W&L,” remarked John
Woodring, the prospective’s brother.

Students, workers exchange nervous glances

Construction workers becoming part of W&L
landscape, cause uneasiness among rich kids

“NO COMMENT”: Construction workers stubbornly refuse The Phi’s
relentless efforts to discuss student/worker relations.

By Holly Wood

STAFF WRITER

“Yeah, seems like every site
I’m on there’s some t‘******

senior

Company.

rette.”

photo by The Biscuit

Brichford.

In the latest renewal of the
age-old tradition of uneasy co-
existence of the social classes,
Economics
Reynolds Jackson exchanged
on Tuesday a curt, nervous
glance with Gary Brichford, a
brick mason working on the new
parking garage for the Haskell

“Yeah, there’s always the
same guy standing there when
I walk by. I guess he’s like a
guard or something,” said Jack-
son. “I’m never sure whether to
say ‘hi’ or not.”

“Yeah, I totally see the same
guy every day,” said Katherine
Bannister, a junior English ma-
jor. “He’s always smoking a ciga-

Brichford has become a fa-
miliar sight to the motorists and
pedestrians who pass his post
at the Nelson Street entrance to
the project site. Jackson and
Bannister are not alone in their
reaction. Several students have
reported feelings of intense
guilt and anxiety as a result of
their daily walk past the con-
struction site, a phenomenon
which is not unfamiliar to

rich kids think they can say ‘hi’
to you and it makes it alright I ’m
working two shifts to feed my
family back in West Virginia
while they get drunk every week-
end on Mommy and Daddy’s
bill,” he said.

Brichford has yet to experi-
ence any feelings of solidarity
with the friendly students. “I
guess they think they’re all real
t‘****** Socialists or some-
thing. Right on comrade,” said
Brichford as he climbed into his
1986 Yugo hatchback before
making the drive to his room at
the Econo-Lodge on Route 1 1.

Bannister has made it a goal
to say “hi” before the end of the
year. “It seems like they work re-
ally hard, so the least we can do
is make them feel welcome here. I
get so mad when people just walk
by them like they’re not even
human beings. I mean, we do
have a Speaking Tradition here.”

Jackson concurred. “Yeah, I
guess they are building our park-
ing garage for us, even if they
have taken their sweet P“ * * * * *
time with it. Can you believe l’ve
had to park my Four-Runner
over in the Red Light District for
the last month? It’s almost not
even worth driving anymore.”

major

antiquated?

Java at the GHQ draws
huge crowd, while country
party at Windfall ignored

By Poison
OPEN UP AND SAY/lHHH....

In a stunning turn of events Wednesday night,
“Java at the GHQ”, a non-alcoholic alternative
to the traditional party scene, outdrew the keg
party simultaneously taking place at Windfall.

“Yeah, I get pretty tired of drinking with my
friends and talking to hot girls,” remarked Scott
Garrett, a sophomore Phi Delt, “I was just ready
for a change, you know?”

Garrett was not alone. The “Java” night drew
its highest attendance ever on Wednesday, an
occurrence which administrators were at a loss
to explain.

“I don’t know what the hell’s going on.” said
a confused Dean Howison, as he fought his way
through the gaggle of KDs standing in front of
the coffee bar. “Is anyone driving out to Wind-
fall later?”

Some called the “Java” attendance record a
ﬂuke; others saw it as a seminal event in Wash-
ington and Lee history.

Jane Horton, head of Student Health noted,
“I really think the culture’s changing here. I mean
really, how many generations of W&L kids can
spend their time standing around in polo shirts,
and khakis, drinking, before it gets boring? I think
coffee is really the new answer to quelling the
mind-numbing boredom of living in Lexington
as a an 18-21 year old.”

One reason for the big draw might have been
“Java at the GHQ’s” Amsterdam Night. The an-
nual theme night featured several Dutch activi-
ties like tulip planting, a Van Gogh exhibit and an
exhibit on windmill making. But the main draw may
have been the “Phatty J” booth featuring large
“marijuana cigarettes” and optional “bong hits.”
Several hookers were on hand as well, represent-
ing Amsterdam’s famous Red Light District. Over-
all, patrons were impressed.

“Where else can I try the new K-bud from Nova
Scotia on the University’s tab,” said drooping sopho-
more David Crawford. “Plus, cheap whores definitely
don’t hurt. Thank you Virginia ABC Boar .”

 

 

 

 

     

 

  

   

  
   
  

      
   
 
     

          
  
  

‘ X 7 5 : I @112 ﬂing-tum iﬂlii ‘
PAGE 2 I F E ,
_ RIL FOOL s IssUE ’
. O O
Slﬂnalurc Special True faith IS found; PA WWN S at W&L

0 . “ *

  By Maj or John Thomas I used to be a member of EH4L, but upon talking to

CLOSETPWP thelPA:VthWNS people and rethinking my belief system, I

. Have on ever wondered wha . , . . rea ize _ at we were all sharing a belief in the same ideas,
owando-y 9 a) 1%] Claéz by your Seem? DO you Seek C0I:S:ta;E11::lE::§:;a;:::naS(::lC3 we werejust misguided in our focus,” Paul said. “Wayne »‘~

ers because thinking for yourself is no longer fun? Have ::sa:rand ahragls. haﬁfgen’ the Father’ and an other Sing"

B I B C 1 you ever wanted to join an elitist group who looks down 6 mere y ls C 1 rem’ so to speak’ Burt. (BaFCz_irach)’

y ' ' uu on others based upon a singular belief‘? If you answered Tom JoneS’.Englebert’ they were all made m H15 Image’

REPORTEREXTRAORDINAIRE “yes” to any of these questions Washington and Lee’s but Wayne IS the Supreme Leader",

The announcement this Week that Washington newest campus group is perfect on you’ The group opens each meeting with a series of perfor- ii
and Lee’s new parking deck will not open until the People Always Wanting Wayne Newton’s Singing inan.ces by the Chlldren Ofwayne’ who Slilg Songs by’ or
end of the next millennium was greeted with a series (P.A.W.W.N.S), a self-proclaimed “cult-esque” group has inspired b.y’ Wayne’ The group th.en studles Wayne 1”"
ofgroans from one end ofoampus to the omen recently brought its unique brand of hypocrisy and hate_ ICS, interviews with Wayne, and discuss how Wayne has

There W35: h°WeVeT» one Person who was made mongering to Lexington. Their leader, Peter, explained the $2:/Ved the human rage‘ .One member’ Matthew’ says i»
“downright giddy” by this announcement. group’s mission. iyne has changed hls Me‘ _

He is LeXlngt0n’S OW“ Special F0reeS Officer “Our whole thing is faith in Wayne Newton and His 1 Igamember the ﬁist meetmg I Came to’ Someone
Rand)’ Dwight Clahk singing,” Peter said. “What we do for our Wayne mis- p éye Dank? Schoen and I knew I wa,s,SaVed from t.he

A great deal of Clahk’sjob description consists sion, is come to a location and give out cups and CD5, Ejoistzlys my me h.ad be?“ about before’ Matthew s.ald'
Ofparking enforcementiwhkh he Performs extremely take people on Wayne retreats, and for all intents and d Sk ayne 529:?’ my hme danke Schoen’ Oh’ my “me '
dillgembﬂ busting dangerous Students and residents purposes, brainwash individuals into proclaiming their win? Schoen '- ~ .
who look suspiciously like they’ll make use of 10- beliefin Waynega SIR WAYNE. The PAWWNS esteemed leader d Le group invites all members. of the Washington
nginute parking for 11 minutes, lovingly fastening The groups has seen modest success here in Lexington and Cu“ inspriations Mr- Wayne NeWt0n- Etilnd 1::oc3:;tmi:n\l£,i;::O::1edattdbdlscovfg3:6 ml? :1‘?-

“ oots” to tires, and callin his friends at the towin ' ' * - - i e “We mug 15
amasmmmaai£mmaaiaa.g zﬁiaghseaaaﬂaaaadeihaa 8$i$h$§$£2%%$$$ﬁ£ﬁ;$$'X:$2ﬁ“$5%n““???“e”e“”“ ”

4‘ ‘ ‘I ‘ ' is . . - ' . ., 1 IZ
Clahlivsiidlildsinxi ‘Iii, Ah wontid ta tow cahs, EH4L (Englebert Humperdinck 4 Life) and FOCUS (Fans piained the transmom Bring); fri 611%, p Z3 an Us 66 games to follow’

The City of Lexington has indeed recognized the . M.‘

E3333"?i’§‘§;?;l”§ZZiiiiiﬁiiiﬁiiéiﬁifiiiifffi T“”"5d°Y»M°rCh3°Iei . ‘ I '
to his existing golf cart’ based on and named after 12:00 p.m. Charity Beneﬁt. ffI)u1}kYoor£favonte Campus B1abberrnouth.”

Clahk’s own favorite Oscar Meyer Weiner Mobile. Sponsored :,b\¥fTh’e R".7g41f”’,£hi Legal Defense Fund’

Clahk has high hopes of expansion for the future. 8:00 p'm° ’Lecm?? Sene.§‘e¥1:m.E5liq°tlmc’iL'MiQmnl’ Professors .

“Yep. Since that dang garage won’t be openin’ Emerltlofphliosophy .3‘  9‘.“"§’5“y' “The Changlilg :'
anytime soon, Ah’m gunna be cashin’ in on y’all Role 0t:PSe'ud°:. °.c“1e»ty' "La Ch.ape]‘Recepu°n to
sorry sunzab****es,” Clahk cackled gleefully, add- follow mth?ilB7Qsf!t‘?vn.g:1i.t.R°Qngli:  1 .  I . I P ’
ing that, uh, what he really meant was that he would 11:00 p‘m' Lecture Senesf : Qught to be President‘? Sponsored .
continue to strive to keep the streets of Lexington by the College  " I  ‘,
safe from hazardously arked SUVs. “And, course, _ H ‘
since, well, Ah, uh, befieal busy doin’ that, the city . . M F|”ldClY. March  .  . “  f , , .  3  ‘ 2 L E . .
can’t help but wanna buy me that Humvee Ah be T d M , i   . 6:00 a.m. VOIunteerSem1ﬁa{.oj;.  diOl3ir1Ad1T1i1.?i3n'aﬁ°n C313’? Get ~ P
needin’ to enforce the law to the best of mah capa- Ues aY' _a.rc . _ I e  W371!-ll15lHaVel0D0ItF01"ﬁ1em-”‘ ..
bilitiosy . 10:30 a.m. First annual One Man March on Washington Hall. Sponsored by sponsoredgy H'a§im‘i_-/floor‘  and The Thnberpramers Gmm ,

Clahk contends that his wish for a Humvee has ‘ the Couegf Democrat‘ I i 4300 P-'“- Squash    "On o1legé.;Libei;ty Hall Field.‘
absolutely nothing to do with insecurity about his I 6:30 P-m-‘ , R95P°[}3ib{1“YSYmP°§1um-P5Y°h-11}at¢13P°n1Y°°m€S§V¢17250Y€313- 7:30 p.m. Winter 2000’Poi  ‘Ei$stasy”’(l:981L)'ldirected . ~
manhood’ Absolutely nothing 7:30 p.m. A Organizational meeting. “W&L will be a single-sex institution anonymously; French;  "b,titles.Room 221, Williams School, . .

Anyway, Should you got done with Class one day, ’ agam” club. Arlington Women’s Center. 9:00 p.m. Candlelight‘ hon“ daho Awareness Day.‘ St. Patrick’s. ‘
and as you approach your car notice a little yellow  . c ’ ~  ‘  ” P * C '1  ii  .. if . if '‘
paper thoughtfully tucked under your windshield ,, W6dH€$dGy, MGPCH  , Saturday’  .: _  gm  E V
wiper, think of that tricky little Officer Clahk, and 7:30 p.m. Organizational meeting. “I lost a J. Crew pea coat at Pi Phi” 1:00 p_m, . concert, Lex_ gtoiiiflhil §s:(§rchestra;:Wiﬂr Xylophone solo
how he’s just saved the streets of Lexington — from . support group. Room 109, University Center. P by Jeannie'Pfi{;e‘ .¥oh11" I I '0 r, Lenfest Center.
you, sucker. 8:00 p.m. . Java at the GHQ. Special guest speaker. “How to deal with 3:00 p.m. » Ping.-pong(V  J L, _, g , niversity; Front Lawn. e e 3'

—-The Phi thanks Billy Joe Tiddledum for trans- , , George W33 daughter on campus. The do’s and don’ts,”  , 4;0Q,p,m_, ».~;3ynch,on;g¢¢;§f, L V’ 0 ' C“ ‘ v '

Iating assistance during Ofﬁcer Clahks interview.   ~, 7 o -,  Bill Clinton, President, United States. W&L mvenlurged to attend. -   . . ',,Tw¢m'51y I ‘:2; I « “

v

“How much ya got?” “Bea Arthur.” “Nothing I haven’t already done “It’s all in my name, baby!” “Only something I’d really enjoy —
— Polly Doig ‘O0 —— Max Smith ‘01 for free.” — Neal Willetts ’03 like clean up puke at The Palms.”
— Hollister Hovey ’00 —— Emily Barnes ’0l 7

TOYOTA

TOYOTA -1 01

MORE VALUE/LESS MONEY
INTRODUCING mm NEW

TOYOTA ECHO

THERE’S AN ECHO OUT THERE! Great looko on the outoldc, great room on the inside.
Cruioc the highway at 40 Ml’G'...vcry thrifty. Power? Plenty! ll:’o a 1.5 liter hi-tech
16 valve DOCH engine with variable valve timing (new) that kicko out lO8 horccpowcr
any time you want it. And boat of all, Echo lo the lowcot priced Toyota!

Hard-up middle-aged fat chick seeks:

Sperm Donor
ages 13-??

 

Compensation $12,000, »
$24,000 if hand-delivered.
Must have pulse, SATs no

higher than 550 (com- "

bined), low-fertility rate,

dwarf-like stature, pasty-
white complexion, albinos
preferred. Please describe

motivation and send i
several [ we wallpaper our

bathroom with them]

photos to: re

lNeedAMan@sendyourseed.com
All serious replies answered

   

New _  thru Toyota Motor Credit l"I6lP5 thoec with limited
credit history buy or lease a new Echo or Cclica. Soc dealer for dctalla.

L@ TOYOTA real values. every day. —l wwwg at-i-loyota _co m

'EPA estimated 32/39 City/Hwy automatic, 34/41 City/Hwy manual.

APRIL FOOL’S ISSUE

iﬂing-tum lﬂhi

LER

PAGE 3

« E-mail General Notes to 
I71‘

Research conclusive: Ennui is genuine

In a striking study released Monday, researchers from
the NYU Department of Psychology challenged cynical
notions about the ennui often found among Washington
and Lee students.

“Contrary to what some people believe, and to what we
ourselves expected to ﬁnd, the indifference and apathy of
these students is quite genuine,” remarked Josh Barker,
head of the study.

Some critics of W&L society have in the past insinu-
ated that the boredom so characteristic of many students
was “just a front,” used to appear “cool” and aloof.

“That’s not true,” noted Barker. “Perhaps in the past,
the attitude commonly referred to as ‘ennui’ was part of

Ellie Etna-tum iﬂlii

Polly Doig
MikeCrittenden
Max Smith
Stephanie Bianco
Elianna Marziani
Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin
As If

The Biscuit

Lisa Lin

Neal Willetts

Executive in Charge of Hazing
Spirits Editor

Breaking Fluff Editor
Otterville Editor
Upcoming Fluff Editor
Filler Editor

Ex-Last Word Editor
Copy Editor

Picture Girl

Assistant Picture Girl
Executive Editor ’s Slave

The Ring-tum Phi is published under extreme duress
during the undergraduate school year at Washington and
Lee University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-
tum Phi comes primarily from the sale of crack and other
hallucinogenic drugs, with additional revenue from the
prostitution of staff members. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor, who is
kept locked where she belongs in the basement of the
University Center.

The Ring-tum Phi does not welcome submissions or
letters anymore. Don’t cry to us; keep your opinions to
yourself. We don’t care. The Ring-tum Phi reserves the
right to edit submissions for opinion and length, and if
you’re dissing us, forget about it. Letters and columns
do not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial
Board, just select members whom you may feel free to
contact individually. Advertising does not reﬂect the
opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff, for those of
you who got your panties in a bunch over that
phonebook thing. This newspaper frequently violates
current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi.
208 University Center ‘
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450

some deliberate, self-conscious image. But it has now be-
come so ingrained in the culture that it is really just a natu-
ral orientation towards life for most students.”

The study was conducted by gauging subject response
to various stimuli, including pictures of starving children,
reports of a death in their family, and tales of injustice from
the Civil Rights movement. Subjects were then exposed to
more benign stimuli. -

“I guess we knew we were dealing with some deep-
seated ennui when we got more explosive responses to
stuff like ‘the parking garage won’t really be ﬁnished until
next fall; there’s nothing going on this weekend; the Co-
op quit selling Swedish Fish,’ that soit of stuff.”

There was also a more free-fomi portion of the study, in
which students were asked to write essays in response to
questions such as “What, ideally, would you do with your
life?; When have you been most impassioned in your life?;
What is your vision of Utopia?”

Most participants apparently thought themselves in the
midst of a history exam.

“I don’t even think they read the questions,” Barker
noted. “I think conducting the survey in Newcomb was a
real mistake. Those blue books didn’t help either, I guess.”

Independent maintains “own identity”

Dave Lemon, a junior anthropology major popular
around campus for his wit and eclectic sense of style, re-
vealed in a press conference Monday that he declined to
go through fraternity rush because he wished to “maintain
my own identity, you know? I mean, I don’t need forty
guys around me who all wear the same clothes, and have
the same hairstyle, and wear the same shoes, just to make
me feel good about myself,” Lemon said, as he ﬁngered
the beaded necklace which has become HIS trademark.

The conference was held in response to a question from
a friend, who asked Lemon Saturday night as they both
enjoyed the sounds of Snack Bar Jones at the Sigma Chi
fraternity house.

“Why didn’t you pledge?” asked the friend.

Lemon immediately rolled his eyes and displayed a large
grin.

“Man, that is so typical,” he said.

He then took his friend by the arm and said, “I’ll tell you
about it some time.

Secret “big four” breeding grounds
discovered by Rockbridge Sheriff

Local authorities were shocked Tuesday by the dis-
covery of a secret breeding grounds in a remote section of
Rockbridge County. Sheriff R.C. Slowcum led the task force
which discovered the grounds after a tip from a local teen-
ager, who stumbled upon the area while looking for a place
to take his girl.

The ﬁve-acre “ranch,” as one observer described it, is
apparently intended for the sole purpose of producing
young men to feed into W&L’s fabled “big four fratemi—
ties. . . [Funny cliches about W&L fraternity members
followed but were cut for space.]

Thetas show dominatrix style

Once again, Kappa Alpha Theta is on top in IM sports events

By J oc Breef

STAFF WRITER

In brutal fashion, Kappa Alpha
Theta has once again asserted its
dominance in women’s intramurals
competition. Taking first place in all
sports except ping-pong, Theta domi-
nation was utter and complete.

“We Rock! I !” exclaimed one happy
Theta as she bounded through the
halls of the Warner Center.

Theta sealed the overall champion-
ship following a bloody indoor soccer
season, but has continued to ﬁeld
teams into the spring. There are plans
to enter a team in the men’s IM foot-
ball toumament next fall.

“Dude, I’m scared,” said Roger
Bailey, member of the L2 football team,
this year’s champions. “I heard those
girls mess sh** up.”

Inside sources attribute the
sorority’s continued success to a
rigourous weight training program and
heavy use of mass-building protein
shakes.

“Yeah, some of the girls were get-
ting pretty slack in the weight room
earlier in the year. We had a few closed
meetings, and there were some pretty
intense exchanges,” said junior Kelly
Mclnnis.

“But I think we came out of it a stron-
ger, tougher group of athletic young
women.” _

In a related note, Coach Jones, head
of the IM program, held a press con-
ference Monday to dispel rumors that

Theta would be included in the men’s.

IM division next year.

“There are not now, nor have there
ever been, plans to include the Kappa
Alpha Theta sorority in the men’s in-
tramural league. We as an athletic de-
partment staff looked at the problem
closely, and we have full conﬁdence
in the safety measures now in place to
protect the young women competing

against these extraordinarily ﬁt la-

’dies.”V‘

Photo by The Biscuit
You I)oN’T WANT ANY or THIs! Do YOU WANT SOME or THIS?! DIoN’T
THINK You WANTED ANY or THIs! This is as close as these Thetas
would let our photographer get to them on the soccer ﬁeld.
“This is OUR‘ HOUSE,” they y"’elled.""‘Gef“oiit of “OUR house!”i

gm M osl’ W&L Shiclcisls

Building your assets is one thing. Figuring out how
those assets can provide you with a comfortable
retirement isquite another.

At T|AA~CREF, we can help you with both. You
can count on us not only while you're saving and
planning for retirement, but in retirement, too.

Just call us. We'll show you how our ﬂexible range
of payout options can meet your retirement goals.

With TIAA-CREF, you beneﬁt from something few
other companies can offer: a total commitment to

your financial well-being, today and tomorrow.

Ensuring the future

for those who shape it.”

IAA-CHEF provides

inancial solutions
to last a lifetime.

With TIAA-CREF’s _
Retirement Income Options.‘
you can receive:

- Cash withdrawals

- Systematic or fixed—period payments
- Interest-only payments

- Lifetime income payments

- A combination of these

[REF GlUBAl‘El]U|T|ES AEET.’

36.05% 22.02” 18.7 5"’"

1 YEAR 5 YEARS SINCE INCEPTION
AS or 12/31/99 As or 12/31/99 5/1/92

1800 842-2775

www.tiaa-tref.org._

. . . . . . . . . - additional tax. Additional
1.Dependin upon our institution. Under federal tax |aw,wittidrawals prior to age 591/2 are Subled ‘0 (E5t'|¢1|0|’l§.3ﬂd "WY 3'50 be 91519“ ‘° 3 "M . . . le
restrictions glso applly to the WM Traditional Annuity. 2.The investment results_shown for the CREF variable annuity reflect past pe|rfcrmanC5‘gif:l‘£2'¢?i':‘a<?‘p"'i‘c‘le"|i“)'°V:‘ "’$?"“‘p_
mes of yexumfrhese returns and the value of the principal you have invested will ﬂuctuate, so the shares you own may bel more or ass maiigal and egmomic (ondm0nSvT‘AA>
tion. Foreign stock markets are subject to addmonal risks from changing currency values, interest rates, government regu aIIOI"!‘S, anpepscznﬂ mvemm Sewices me dismbmes
CREF Individual and Institutional Services, In<._d_istributes CREF cemﬁcat_e_s and interests in the TIAA Real Estate Account_.fTeIac ers Cerco issue insurance and ianmmies. "AA?
the variable component of the personal annuities, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements.Tl/IA and TlM—CREF Li e nsuran .

CREFTrust Company, FSB provides trust services. Investment

‘ are not FDIC Insured. maylose value and are not bank guaranteed. For more complete i"f°'m-“lo”

on CREF, including charges and expenses, call I 800 842-Z776,rexi. 5509, for the prospectus. Read it carefully before you invest or send money. 0 2000 T|AA'CREF 1/00-

Baserl on wet Boll! survev
data from 1998,1999

Funded llll a grant from

7/1490  

Virginia llenartment of
Alcoholic Beiieragecontrol

 

 LAST WORD 

APRIL F OOLS ISSUE

Hollywood hits W&L 

   

ikv

marisa coughlan kris pollina _ _ _ _ mark rolston (Sha wshank jim stagnitta
(Teaching Mrs. Tingle) daVld $ChWlmm9l’ mike wlenlck Redemption & Aliens)

     
 

mena suvari katie boening peter gallagher greg meyers

nick carter
(American Beauty) (American Beauty)

(backstreet boys)

    

.4 2. *” » i A
michael rapaport brian brantley wes bentley zach fake tom green
(Beautiful Girls) (American Beauty)

       

mi¢h39’ 5tiP9 josh harvey Iucy Iiu B emily belcher

elizabth harve y
(Ally McBeal)

      

topher grace turner vosseler I angelina jolie heather mcdonald
(That ‘70s Show)

 

meg ryan kate mason sharon stone michelle backus

 

