4, .(t;rI?,.755

U112 ﬂing-tum {H

 

  

 

P\TC i‘\ I

re‘-‘§i’..
.9/. IO 1»
31?)» (O
c /2.»

WASIIINGTON ANI) LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

 

VOLUME 102, No.10

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1999

, Age- old
. arrives at W&L

deb ate

Creationism vs. evolution argument
explores divisive questions on campus

By Max Smith

STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee junior Tyler
Jorgensen doubts that his mind shares
a common ancestry with other beings.

“My brain has a concept of right
and wrong beyond the basic impulses
of procreating and surviving,”
Jorgensen said. “That must have come
from somewhere other than the animal
kingdom.”

W&L Geology professor Fred
Schwab doesn’t share Jorgensen’s
distrust of evolution. He believes evo-
lution is the basis of biology and hu-
man development. '

“I have faith in a chemical experi-
ment billions of years ago  in some
ancient ocean,” Schwab said.

Comments like these framed the de-
bate Oct. 5, as scientists and creation-
ists came together for a public forum
on creationism and evolution and their
place in education. 150 people packed
W&L’s Northern Auditorium for a
panel discussion featuring ﬁve W&L
professors. For an hour and a half pan-
elists and the student dominated au-
dience exchanged ideas and beliefs.

Biology professor John Knox said
creationism has no place in science.

“It’s beyond the bounds of science
to invoke God for explanations,” Knox
said. “The supernatural can’t be
taught in science.”

Politics professor Lucas Morel said
scientists shouldn’t be so quick to dis-
miss the role of religion in helping ex-
plain our universe.

“[Scientists think] religion should
just stay in a box,” Morel said. “Reli-
gion can deal with facts that are ascer-
tained outside of labs.”

75 years after the Scopes “monkey
trial,” evolution is still making head-
lines. The Kansas Board of Educa-
tion voted recently to remove evolu-
tion and the Big Bang theory from the
state’s science curriculum. While the
decision did not ban evolution from
classrooms, it removed the subject
from statewide student evaluation
tests. Kentucky school administrators
this week removed the word evolution
from guidelines for middle school and
high school courses. Employing the
phrase “change over time” to take its
place, school ofﬁcials promised that
the change was only a semantics is-
sue.

The forum was not the first time
creationism has been a topic at W&L
this year. Stephen Jay Gould, a noted
scientist and author, discussed the
Kansas decision with students and
faculty before giving the Fall Convo-
cation address.

“[This decision] is like teaching En-
glish, but making grammar optional,”
Gould said. “[You’re] taking the cen-

terpiece out of science.”

Schwab insisted that creationism
and science cannot mix, especially in
the classroom.

“Creationism is fine, but keep it out
of my classroom,” Schwab said. “It
asks me to throw out 45 cabinets worth
of research and samples.”

Morel said such dismissals of cre-
ationism are common among scien-
tists. Because they haven’t developed
the whole evolutionary picture, they
refuse to admit creationism or other
theories may have a place in solving
the puzzle.

“I’m in favor of intellectual hon-
esty,” Morel said. “Evolutionary sci-
entists should be honest about the
problems with their own theories.”

Knox said the evidence supporting
evolution grows all the time.

“Evolution goes on today,” Knox
said. “We have evidence of special
[evolutionary] events occurring natu-
rally.”

Knox said a primary contention in
the debate is the difference between
scientists’ and the general public’s in-
terpretation of theory. He said evolu-
tion is a well-tested and well-re-
searched theory that scientists accept
as the rule. Schwab said that open-
ness to change is one of the primary
reasons why creationism cannot be
considered a science.

“Creationism is a statement,”
Schwab said. “You have to take it or
leave it, because it’s not open to de-
bate.”

English professor Kary Smout said
the creationism issue may see some
resolution when both sides begin try-
ing to understand each other’s argu-
ments.

“We ought not to see language as
a matter of truth versus lies,” Smout
said.

He said the creationism debate is
currently a competition between the
world views of academia and of fun-
damentalism.

Associate Dean of the College
Steve Desjardins said the difficulty in
justly teaching creationism is consid-
ering different religions’ interpreta-
tions.

“The difﬁculty with creationism is
who’s creation story do we teach?,”
Desjardins asked. He said all sorts of
beliefs, from Hinduism to the ancient
Greeks’, would have to be considered.

“We question evolution because it
contradicts one chapter of one
country’s religion’s interpretation,”
Desjardins said. “We teach biology
because you don’t have to believe it.”

Moderator and Philosophy profes-
sor Lad Sessions summarized the
course of the forum at the beginning.

“Tonight’s discussion is volatile,”
Sessions said. “Some even doubt that
rational discussion, much less civil dis-
cussion, can be held on this subject.”

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

HERE SIIE COMES. . . Ms. HOMECOMING QUEEN: Senior Kappa Alpha Theta representative Deirdre
Coyle and escort Scott LeTourneau receive their crowns at halftime of Saturday’s football game.

Lending a helping hand

Volunteerism ﬁnds new popularity at Washington and Lee

By Heather McDonald

STA FF WRITER

Sophomore Shelley Parks knows
about giving a helping hand. Last year
she volunteered at Waddell
Elementary’s aﬂerschool music program
working with kindergartners and first-
graders.

“We basically introduced them to.

music. Some were very shy about sing-
ing at first,” Parks said. “The kids, espe-
cially the boys, gained a greater interest
in music and more conﬁdence.”
Volunteerism at W&L is on the rise,
most noticeably after the Total Action
Against Poverty (TAP) freshman orien-
tation program, made volunteerism a hot
topic. Dean ofFresliman Mark Dalhouse
organized a freshman orientation project

«

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
Sigma Chi brothers enjoy Saturday’s Homecoming tailgate before the football game.

in inner-city Roanoke through the TAP
program. About 30 freshmen lived in
public housing for a week and performed
community service.

Volunteerism isn’t restricted to the
freshman class however. Parks found
out about the need for volunteers at the
annual Activities Fair held during fresh-
man orientation. Students have also
gotten involved in the service projects
is through the Shepherd Poverty Pro-
gram. Students involved in the program
start with Interdisciplinary 101, a pov-
erty studies class, and then follow up
the class with an eight-week ﬁill-time
volunteer project over the summer. Pro-
fessor Harlan Beckley is director of the
program.

“This generation is deﬁnitely not
apathetic,” Beckley said. “They have
been very responsive towards becom-
ing acquainted with lives they had not
had occasion to know well before.”

The increased interest in volunteer
work found another outlet at last
Tuesday’s first armual volunteer fair.
About 27 volunteer organizations gath-
ered in the Science Center’s Great Hall.
Lucy Baldwin, W&L’ s Volunteer Coor-
dinator, organized the fair. Community-
based groups ranging ﬁom local schools
to the Free Clinic to the Valley AIDS
Network had tables with representatives
to talk about their programs.

“The program ﬁlled a niche and need
of the student body by providing an
outlet for interest,” Baldwin said. Echo-
ing Beckley, she also said that W&L stu-
dents today are much more altruistic in
attitude.

“It’s certainly a change [in attitude].
I get a very real sense of a different stu-
dent body then when I was here four
years ago [as a student],” said Baldwin.

This increased student interest at
W&L fueled the creation of a new vol-
unteer club. Sophomore Stacy
McLoughlin organizedthe first meeting.
Over 100 students attended, and

McLoughlin received many more emails
from interested students.

“The club’s purpose is threefold,”
McLoughlin said. “We are learning
about issues, that there are still prob-
lems in the community, and also that stu-
dents can make a difference in the
world.” The club will hold weekly and
monthly projects, and will also sponsor

‘monthly speakers and “service retreats.”

With more and more publicity, and
increasing interest in volunteer work,
more students will be taking the steps
necessary to get involved. Beckley and
Baldwin noted how many students vol-
unteer once, and are hooked. Parks is
one of them.

“I am going to try to read at the el-
ementary school this term,” Parks said.
“I enjoy working with kids and I find the
experience very rewarding to me person-
ally. I had a wonderﬁil time last year.”

Computer
problems
continue

Students frustrated
By Heather McDonald

STAFF WRITER

Last Friday at 6: 15 p.m., the com-
puter network crashed. Only this time
the outage was planned.

In an attempt to stabilize the W&L
computing network, the Jefferson
server was shut down completely by
University Computing beginning Fri-
day in order to take apart the Trimble
server.

In a broadcast email message sent
to the entire W&L community, Univer-
sity Computing said the network out-
age would cause problems. Student
labs were not functioning, because
Novell (the software which the sys-
tem runs on) would not be accessible.
Students were unable to log into their
personal home directories or Pegasus
email. By transferring the ﬁles from
Jefferson to the Trimble server, Uni-
versity Computing is hoping to stabi-
lize the H: drive for student work in
labs and email access.

University Computing has still not
discovered exactly what is wrong with
the school network. Since the begin-
ning of September, the servers have

‘crashed frequently and unexpectedly,

creating havoc for the W&L commu-
nity. Stuckey said that University
Computing has determined that the
main problem is that something con-

tinually triggers Jefferson to freeze, I

causing the system to crash.

Despite the efforts of University
Computing, frustration is reaching an
all-time high. Junior Ted Adams was
working on an English paper in one of
the student labs when Jefferson
crashed suddenly on Thursday after-
noon.

“I really want to kill somebody right
now,” Adams said. “This is ridiculous.
We’re paying enough in tuition that
they could spend the money to fix the
system. Can’t we just hire some guys
from MIT and pay them a million each
to ﬁx it? Somebody ﬁx it now!”

Students are not the only ones anx-
ious about the servers. The Univer-
sity Computing staff is also frustrated.

“We have not yet found any one
thing. We have initiated high-level
tech support with Novell and Dell [the
makers of the software and hardware
for the servers], and this is ongoing.
We can’tjust turn off the system and
fix it at any time, because it will incon-
venience students,” said Student
Computing Coordinator Dirk van
Assendelft.

Since Sept. 23, University Comput-
ing has been sending out bulletins on
the sewers’ status to campus ofﬁcials.

“One way that students can help
out is if they move to Groupwise [email
accounts],” van Assendelft said. Be-
cause Groupwise is not on the
Jefferson server like the old email pro-
gram Pegasus, more students using
Groupwise will free up the Jefferson
server.

October 1 1, 1999

OPINION:

W&LrFE:

SPORTS:

LAST WORD:

Elie Tiling-tum iﬂlii.

Runner tirades against WLUR DJ

Mindbending experiences

Generals fall in homecoming showdown

McManemin: He’s so unusual

PAGE 2

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

PAGE 6

 

 

PAGE 2

Picture, if you will, the stereotypical female distance
runner: long and lean, with strong muscles, tiny legs, and
a painfully thin body, running miles a week virtually on
empty, eating only a salad after burning 1,000 calories in
practice. Unhealthy. Amenorrheic. Anorexic. Unfortu-
nately, statistics show that this image is one that is all too
accurate: Sports Illustrated reported that 70% of women
athletes suffer from eating disorders. Another study put
cross-country on the top of the list for sports at the high-
est risk forthe development of eating disorders. These
illness can lead to osteoporosis, al-
tered brain function and size, heart
weakness, central nervous system
disturbances, and sometimes, in 10%
ofcases, result in death. They are not
things to be taken lightly.

So, as an experienced runner who’s
been on the cross country and track teams for nine years

 

, and seen eating disorders and the pain of their conse-

quences in full force, you can imagine my outrage when I
casually turned on WLUR the other night and heard sev-
eral male voices, one being the captain of the men’s cross-
country team, expounding on the “heaviness” of the run-
ners on the women’s cross-country team. Laughing loud
and long, they made wisecrack after wisecrack referring to
how much the members of the women’s team eats, the size
of our butts, and the “feeding frenzy” that occurs when
we stop for fat-free frozen yogurt after meets (God forbid
we ingest 350 calories - we’ve onlyjust burned off800 or
so during the race). They joked about our ability to run
fast despite being overweight (although one was quick
to add that we don’t in fact run fast, wejust think that
we do), going on and on and finding themselves quite
amusing. This funny little chat continued for some time,
but I eventually turned off the radio, disgusted and
upset, remembering the girl on my high school team
whose self-created running program involved training
over 100 miles a week and drinking a Diet Coke for lunch.
She ended up in the hospital on several occasions, and
now has been injured as a result of brittle bones so many

Staff
Editorial

We want chips and salsa. We want chips and
salsa. For the past several months, the in-town Lex-
ington comrrniriity has enjoyed quality Mexican
food at a super prices. I cannot express in mere
words how giddy the El Puerto across from the
post office made me. Well rumor has it that El
Puerto’s in-town branch is closed for good. Phooey,
man, that sucks. Taco Bell surely has its much ap-
preciated place in society, but it just doesn’t com-
pare to the authentic Mexican taste of El Puerto.
Lexington just isn’t complete without a restaurant
that offers unlimited chips and salsa while you wait
for your meal. Chimichangas make everyone happy,
where else in town can you be greeted with a friendly
“I-Iola.”

Where are we as a community supposed to go
from here? Life can surely not be the same here in
Lexington. Granted, the El Puerto hasn’t been there
for a year, but its departure is as if we’ve seen the
land of milk and honey only to learn that the milk
and honey are leaving. Come back milk! Come back
honey!

@112 ﬂing-tum ilﬂliig

Polly Doig
Hollister Hovey
Michael Crittenden
Stephanie Bianco
Ginger Phillips
Elianna Marziani
Frances Groberg
Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin
Heather McDonald
Emily Barnes

Executive Editor
Associate Editor
News Editor
Opinions Editor
W&Life Editors

Sports Editors
Last Word Editor

Copy Editor
Photo Editor

Assistant Photo Editor Lisa Lin
Online Editor Ali Soydan
1«a}’out Editor Neal Willetts

Circulation Director Leo Brown

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor. but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 ofthe University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reflect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reflect the opinions of The Ring-rum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington. VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wIu.edu
http://wluedu./~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

 Maine Speed

 Wendy Case ’01

@112 itting-tum ilﬂhi

Running their mouths off

times that she can never run again.

Why was this little discussion not funny and hurtful
on more than a personal level? Let me count the
ways...First of all, the captain’s tirade gives a poor im-
pression to the school ofthe relations between the men’s
and women’s teams. If he fails to give support the
women’s team, finding it acceptable to in fact insult us
publicly, what does that say to the rest ofthe school?
Not to mention the obvious fact that is simply rude to
express a degrading and personal opinion on the air - not
very “gentlemanly” if you ask me.
Furthermore, the insults were simply
unnecessary. What did these guys
gain by cruelly making fun of a very
sensitive issue? Are they that inse-
cure?

And, are they that clueless? Our
campus has serious problems with eating disorders. Many
girls suffer day to day with their food issues here at W&L
and on a national level. The prevalence of anorexia and bu-
lirnia is common knowledge in today’s society and of great
concern: look at the countless workshops and speakers that
come to college campuses to try and prevent these illnesses
from occurring. Were these guys just ignorant of the com-
monplace of eating disorders here? Or were they insensitive
to the impact they could have been making? Or did they
realize what they were doing and just didn’t care?

Lighten up, you say. Calm down, girls, they were just
joking around. Teasing you. Being guys. Well, we’re not
laughing this time. These remarks could have and may
have had profound effects on the health and self-es-
teem of my teammates. I suppose, though, that we
should apologize. We’re sorry for not having a sense
ofhumor. We’re sorry for being hungry after exerting
extreme physical energy in practice. We’re sorry for
giving into our sweet tooth once a week. We’re sorry
that not all of us look like starved professional athletes
with under 10% body fat. Now I think you all need to
apologize. If you need to find us, we’ll be on our ten
mile run...there, or Salerno’s.

LETTERS To

Theme housing will only

lead to more complaints

Dear Editor, ‘
I read with interest your story concerning proposed

“theme housing” for the 2000-2001 academic year (9-‘
27-79). However, I was slightly confused by the com-?

ment from Gabrielle Best in which she said, “I think it’s
a good idea but I don’t see how plausible it’s going to
be. You need to get to the heart ofthe issue, just hav-
ing them housing is not going to make us more di-
verse.” I have a problem with that statement on two
levels.

First level, the school is merely offering the ability
for students to live in an atmosphere that they might
find to be exotic or familiar to home. Educationally, it
could really improve the foreign language speaking skills
of students who cannot afford to travel abroad. I ap-
plaud the school’s effort.

Second level, I find that Washington and Lee stu-
dents who share the view of Ms. Best are often touting
the woes of a homogenous campus while accusing the
school of a failure to get to the “heart” of the problem.
I have yet to hear one of these students’ opinions on
what exactly is the “heart of the issue.” The real prob-
lem is that these students complain when the school
does not act and then turn around and complain when it
does act. What policy would they like to see in action?
We could adopt the policy ofquotas. In fact, this policy
has proven to increase diversity on a number of college
campuses across the country and perhaps we should

try it to see if it works.
However, this policy is often known to backlash

against minority students whose peers dismiss their
acceptance into the university as illegitimate or con-
tribute it only to the policy of quotas, which does not
encourage a positive academic environment. The bot-
tom like is this: a college education is neither compul-
sory nor inexpensive. Each W&L student has the free
will to apply to any school that they desire and upon
acceptance attend that school. No one is forcing any-
one to be here. In fact, each student willingly pays
the administration to administer the school in a way
in which they deem fit. If you don’t like this, send
your money elsewhere.
Respectfully,
Robert Wallace Karrington VI

 

OCTOBER 1 l, 1999

  

ON AIR

THE EDITOR

To the miserable people

Dear Editor,

First off, I take offense to the Phi ’s description of my
campaign posters as “homophobic.” The term “ho-
mophobic” implies a type of irrational fear that I do not
possess. Nothing about my denouncement of homosexu-

There is nothing wrong with accepting homosexuals as
people. The act of homosexuality, on the other hand, is
illogical, perverse and destructive to the human race. It
is counterproductive for us as a society to support this
kind of behavior. Homosexuality is part of someone’s
lifestyle and a political candidate has every right to make
one’s lifestyle and morals an issue.

Secondly, to all the people who have sent me hatemail
and all the people who have left harassing phone mes-
sages without having the backbone to leave their name
or phone number, please save your poorly argued, self-
righteous ramblings for a campus full of followers who
buys it. You have in no way begun to change my stance
on this issue or made me feel even an ounce of guilt. I
award you no points, and may God have mercy on your
souls. After all, you are the miserable people. It’s people
like you that make the rest of us look so damn good.

Thirdly, thank you to everyone who has supported
me and wants to help me help our class. I am open to all
suggestions. I will be appointing my cabinet shortly.

Your salty class president,

John Herbert ‘0l

P.S. Next stop, E.C. president.

Rage against the McManemin

Dear Editor,

It is possible to sin not only through action, but also
through inaction, and Kevin McManemin’s “The ﬁnal
victory ofthe spin doctors” is a glaring example ofjust
how to do this. McManemin clearly takes a stinging
backhand shot at Dennis Rodman in a dastardly and
underhanded manner. After pattering on through a half-
page of Papish prattle, he brings Rodman up with only
the mention that he is wearing his Bullsjersey. This is
unconscionable.

Dennis Rodman is a national hero who, aside from
being unarguably the best basketball player of all time,
epitomizes the ideals of American liberty and free speech.
By describing Rodman as anything less than what he

is, by degrading him to just another Joe wearing a
Bulls jersey, McManemin is making an unabashed
show of immoral racist prejudices. He is clearly choos-
ing to ignore all that is distinctive about Rodman, and
instead focusing on the (need I mention he’s white?)
Pope.

_ _ _  , _ , , The slight does notend there, thoiigli. In the com- ‘
alrty IS Irrational, nor‘does it encompass any type of fear. " ‘

plaintiiletter count, spin" d'oct6r§;‘ ‘the Pope, ' and’
Spielberg are all accounted for, but nowhere does he
even so much as admit to his slander of Rodman. To
strikewand admit it is one thing, but to cold-bloodedly
overlook that any transgression has been made is
showing no remorse and, quite likely, no human con-
science.

When considered in light of the very first article in
that issue of the Phi, it becomes unquestionable that
McManemin is host not only to disgusting racial preju-
dices, but anti-feminist chauvinism (where are the
women in his article?) homophobia (are any alterna-
tive sexual lifestyles represented?) and heterophobia
(for is not the mocked Pope a symbol of Catholic and
Christian Virtues?).

Even if only for his insensitivity, even disregarding
the plethora of other sins he has piled upon his head,
it is obvious that strong measures should be taken in
regard to Mr. McManemin. Although his articles have
traditionally been funny, harmless pieces, he has re-
vealed the monster that he is, and in the name of all
that is orange, round, and gets slam-dunked as well as
sunk from the three-point line, let this monster be dealt
with!

Bryant Adams ’01

; R,
I

  uote of the Week:

“ 

We’re going to have to move
on to the faculty.

— Junior girl lamenting lack
of available men at W&L

 What is your best Homecoming memory? .

 

 

 

“Watching friends sit on our apart-
ment floor after a ‘hard’ night at Pi
Phi.”

-Britt Shaffer ’02

“Uh. Ican’t remember.”
-Shabboo Hosseini ’02

were lots of people.”

-Raphael Penteado ’03

“Chi Psi was awesome because the
food and drinks were good and there

“Seeing everyone all dressed up
and the alumni visiting. The
enthusiasm was great.”

-Rob Brown ’03

,\f

 

 

OCTOBER 1 1, 19.99

W&

@112 ittirtg-Glam lﬂlri

IFE

PAGE 3

Drama that will bend your mind

By Eliarma Marziani
F EA TURES EDITOR

Five dollars and a little imagination
makes Broadway come alive in Lexing-
ton. So, at least, would argue Mindbend-
ing Productions president Brian Prisco.

Mindbending Productions, also
known as Mindbenders, is a student-run
theater production company. Fifty stu-
dents from W&L undergrad and law, as
well as VMI participate in ﬁnding or writ-
ing scripts and then producing perfor-
mances based on them, thus bringing an
idea for a play into reality for the beneﬁt
of the Lexington community.

The group was founded in 1996 by
two students who wanted to put on a
production and took the initiative to do
it on their own. Since then, the group
has grown drastically, but its primary pur-
pose remains the same.

“We provide an outlet for anything
that anybody wants to do,” vice-presi-
dent Kathie Soroka ‘O1 said.

Students come with their own scripts,
or a known author’s script and a unique
idea of a way to perform it, and if they are
interested and dedicated enough to see it
through, the group will work with them to
make their ideaareality.

“If someone has an interest and is
willing to follow through with it, we’ 11 do

it,” Prisco said.

Subject material itself is chosen by

consensus. If someone has an idea that
a number of people are willing to work
with, it comes alive. If not enough inter-
est exists on the part of the initiator or
the other members, the idea dies.

One of the things that makes
Mindbenders unique is its budget, or
lack thereof. The group does not receive
money ﬁom the EC, and while it has re-
ceived money from the theater depart-
ment, it tries to A
steer away from A " ' "
spending money
at all.

“We can do a
quality show with-
out having to
spend that kind of
money. We can do
something just as
good for like ﬁve
bucks, the cost of
printing the
scripts,” Prisco
stated.

The group is
not in competition
with any other
group on campus.

“We work in
conjunction with
Lenfest. . . We’re a
little less stringent,
but that doesn’t
mean our produc-

 

tions are any less quality,” Prisco said.

While the group does enjoy putting
on full perfonnances, it also enjoys pro-
ducing improvisational comedy nights,
such as the one at the Ruse on Saturday
night. “We just get up on the stage and
go crazy,” Prisco said.

Soroka agreed, “It's really hard not
to have a good time when you're up

there making a fool out of yourself.”

   
   

Their next event will be what Prisco
calls “a little guerilla theater” on Parents’
Weekend. Members will look at the Com-
plete Works of William Shakespeare
Abridged, then break into little troupes,
wandering along the Colonnade and
finding people for whom they can act
out bits of Shakespeare.

Anyone interested in Mindbenders
should contact Prisco or Soroka.

‘* 

4‘

photo courtesy of Meredith Welch

“YADA, YADA, YADAI”: Sophomore Helen Downes and senior Meredith Welch
onstage during a Mindbending Productions presentation at the Ruse last year.

Say ‘JALO’ to new college-aged Website

By Ginger Phillips

F EA TURES EDITOR

Do you ever ﬁnd yourself hope-
lessly searching the intemet for infor-
mation that you know must be out there
but that you just can’t seem to ﬁnd?

Finding that needed information is
now much easier with the recent intro-
duction of the web portal www.jalo.com.
JALO is an acronym for “Just Another
Link Organizer” and is pronounced with
a Spanish “j,” which sounds like an “h.”

JALO ditfers ﬁom ordinary web portals
in that it is aimed at college students and
provides a wide range of entertaining and
useﬁrl web links to meet their needs.

- “We distilled from the Internet what
we thought to be sites that college stu-
dents would use most,” said Kyle
Halliday, Executive Vice President and
junior at the University of Virginia.

The prototype for JALO was devel-
oped by Washington and Lee Univer-
sity junior Brian Crews earlier this year.

“It was hard work, but we got a product '

out that we are proud of,” Crews said.
JALO is deﬁnitely something which
should inspire pride in its creators. The
site provides links on a mixture of perti-
nent topics from news and sports to
music and fashion to alcohol and sex.
Students will ﬁnd an extensive
intemet research directory with links
to reference materials, writing tools, pe-
riodicals, and links according to col-
lege majors. The site’s less serious side
includes “cool links” such as the “Cem-

.etery of Rock,” the “World’s Largest

 

“My body is Y2K compatible...
How about yours?”

FOR A EIGI-I

0 AIR CONDITIONED FACILITIES

o 30 AEROBICS CLASSES PER WEEK 0 OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 0
BODY MASTERS EQUIPMENT o HAMMER STRENGTH EQUIP-
MENT o 22 PIECES OF CARDIOVASCULAR EQUIPMENT o PRO
SHOP o TANNING SPECIALS o LOCKERS o SHOWERS
1 call 464-9060 now for club tour!

STUDENT SPECIAL
$ 18 9 PA

-OR_

$29 PER MONTH
:T MONTHS!

Omega
$711/12 ess
Gen/er

IN FULL

1

Roadside Attractions” and the “Mail
Order Bride Warehouse.”

So whatever aspect of university life
you need to explore, go no further than
the closest computer. JALO’s site,
www.jalo.com, will be sure to provide
you with a myriad of useful and just
plain fun web links.

_ V12,

4 :00:p.m.

SIGNATURE STUDENT:

%//6

By Frances Groberg

SPORTS EDITOR

On a campus where physical di-
versity is sometimes barely

W3’

Why did you decide to come to
W&L?
“I’ve got a few older friends up

here. Every time I came up here I met .

more and more people.”

existent, it’s hard not to no-
tice Will Coffman. Coffman,
from Lexington, Kentucky,
has been wheelchair-
bound since a car accident
during his Sophomore year
in high school.

Coffman has experi-
enced a few roadblocks on
this 250-year-old campus.
The primary obstacle, he
noted, is the Co-op. “I
think they’re going to put
a ramp up for next year,” he
said.

These difﬁculties do not
extend into his leadership
capabilities. Cofﬁnan has re-
cently been elected fresh-
man representative to the Executive
Committee. “I think the honor sys-
tem is awesome. It’s the thing that
makes the school. It makes it feel
like a different world since you can
leave your laptop somewhere and
no one will take it,” Coffman said.

“I’m interested in going to law
school, and it is a position of au-
thority,” Cofﬁnan said in response
to why he ran

He is extremely excited about
the turnout for the election. “Our
class is one to speak up, evident in
that twice the amount of people
voted in the election than usual.
They want to get involved.”

K‘ \ 5 ‘    I’
Freshman Will Coffman was

recently elected EC representa-
tive for the Class of 2003.

professional hockey game.”

 

photo by Emily Barnes/Photo Editor

What do you like to do in your
spare time?

“I like to watch sports and relax.”

What is your favorite D-hall food?

“Scrambled eggs. I have an eight
o’clock class and go to breakfast ev-
ery morning and have scrambled
eggs.”

Ifthe world ended tomorrow, what
would you do?

“Go home because there are
people I want to see. Probably see a

Why do you think the class of ‘03
rocks?

“We have more people than any
other class. We have the best and
most involved students.”

...upcomin9  events.     

Tuesday, October 12 ‘ by .
I . ‘ Memorial service. for the 129th
I sary of the Lee’S death. Lee‘ 4 ,
AED Health Professions Serninar:%{‘Os .
“ teopathic Medical School Admissions,”
» Shannon Warren, adrnissions,}West Vir
jginia School of ‘Osteopathic  9
Room 3 I6, VMI New Science Bu g.
Writers Harvest. Annual beneﬁt read-
ing for Share Our‘Strength,‘a,iiation 9
organization working to relie ‘ "
.. Northen {’¥‘.1£1.i.?9Ei.m¥i-... A A

Wednesday, October 13, A V ,
Soccer  W&L vs. Lynchburg
College. Liberty Hall F ield.» -

Pei} 9’

.w&r; vsLGoucherCol-I

,&Livs.  College
-LibeT‘Y1f.*#]1..1,i_Fi°3d- .

3 W. Nelson St.

540-464-1501

Lexington, VA 24450

 

“We’re more than just hot dogs; we also serve fresh bagels,
‘International Wrapps’ and high protein smoothie."

Mon. - Thurs. 8:00a.m. - 7:00p.m.
Fri. - 8:00a.m. - 9:00p.m.
Sat. - 11:00a.m. - 9:00p.m.

 

 

PAGE 4

 RT s

OCTOBER 1 1, 1999

by Frances Groberg

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee Women’s Soccer is now 7-1
in the ODAC, thanks to a 2-0 victory over Bridgewater
College on Saturday.

Junior midﬁelder Lindsay Williams got the Generals (8-
4, 7-1 ODAC) on the scoreboard ﬁrst off an assist from
sophomore midﬁelder Drew Powers. The game remained 1-
0 until senior Stephanie McKnight, after playing 30 min-
utes in goal, scored off an assist from junior Courtney
Nolan with only 1:30 left in the game.

McKnight, junior Lauren Harris, and sophomore Kate
Mobley shared the shutout in goal for the Generals.

W&L outshot the Eagles by a count of 25-4_on the match.

The Generals did not fare as well Wednesday when they
faced Roanoke. W&L suffered its ﬁrst ODAC loss of the

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
MAN ON THE RUN: Senior QB Christian Batcheller runs one in during Saturday’s loss to Davidson.

Women’s soccer gets marooned

season to the Maroones by a score of 3-1. Roanoke still
holds the top spot in the ODAC.

Junior captain Shana Levine scored the only Generals’
goal just 2:59 into the match when she knocked in a free
kick from 35 yards out.

Though W&L took the 1-0 lead into halftime, the Ma-
roons jumped out quickly in the second, scoring three goals
within the first 12 minutes of the half. For the game, the
Generals outshot Roanoke by a count of 23-8.

“During the first half of the Roanoke game we played
probably the best we have all season,” said Levine. “In the
second half we just let our game down and everything
kinda fell apart for us. We’ 11 be ready for them in the ODAC
tournament. We really want to beat them and win.”

For its next game, W&L will host conference leading
Lynchburg College on Wednesday, October 13. Garnetirne
is set for 4 p.m.

   

llllllﬂllll

( 143/’ (:<’ .(/Ijmm‘///(Iy ();I.

FRESH EACH MORNING
ESPRESSO - CAPPUCCINO - FRESH ROASTED COFFEES ° FINE TEAS
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET 0 LEXINGTON - 464-6586

    

Q ‘IJJI-[l.),lI_

3%

2/  Z(2)a.r51'z2g/012 CS/reel’
790. 750x [490
gexirzy/012, v1'1'g1°T21'a 244.50

Ya/ares/ed 1'12 1°eCe1'01'12y a1°1][a1°e a120/ CS/Orzkzy
93’z»aa/.1 apa/a/as 5y e—ma1f? cSeaa/ a message /a
£7.z~aae/ Q/a/Jazz/ad d/.'

/1~aaa/@1-ocA6,~,°o/aa_ae/

(540) 463-7174
ﬂax; (540) 463~7647

Generals blow

By Mike Weil

STA FF WRITER

For the second straight week, the Washington and Lee
football team put up gigantic offensive numbers. For the
second straight week, senior quarterback Christian Batcheller
put up a record-breaking performance. And for the second
straight week the Generals notched yet another game in the
loss column, this time falling to Davidson College, 35-28.

The Generals jumped out to an early 14-0 lead in the first
quarter on seven and 28-yard touchdown runs by freshman
tailback Chris Sullivan. Davidson responded in the second
quarter with two straight touchdowns of their own, with the
game-tying touchdown coming off of a blocked punt re-
turned 29 yards into the endzone.

W&L would then retaliate with an 18-yard quarterback
sneak by Batcheller on fourth and one with 2:03 remaining in
the half. The Generals defense, however, was unable to stop
Davidson’s two-minute drill, as the Wildcats marched 62
yards on nine plays eating up 1 :37 off the clock. This shifted
the momentum back to Davidson as the two squads ended
the half tied at 2 1.

The Wildcats continued the scoring just 43 seconds into
the second half as quarterback Shaun Tyrance found re-
ceiver Roland Williams for a 62-yard touchdown pass giv-
ing Davidson a 28-21 lead. This seesaw battle continued
with 8:06 left in the third when senior running back Scott

Soccer on a run

By Robert Turner

STAFF WRITER

W&L’s men’s soccer team kept their streak of ODAC victo-
ries going this week, defeating Roanoke and Emory & Hemy
on Wednesday and Friday, respectively, to improve their record
to 4-5 overall and 3-2 in the ODAC.

The Generals started the week off well with a phenomenal
performance against arch rival Roanoke, defeating the Ma-
roons 5-2. W&L got on the board quickly when sophomore
Andrew Grimes scored the first of his three goals only 36
seconds into the game. Roanoke tied the score 17 minutes
later but the Generals would go on to dominate.

Grimes netted his second goal 6:50 into the second half,
and senior Jamie Parker quickly followed suit on a penalty
kick. Grimes then would go on to complete his hat trick before
freshman Kevin Bibona added another goal for the Generals.

“It was probably our biggest win of the season,” senior
captain Scott LeToumeau said, adding that “it was great to get
a win over such a big rival, especially by such a large margin.”

The Generals kept their winning streak alive Friday defeat-
ing the oveimatched Wasps of Emory & Henry 2-1 behind
goals from senior Jason Miller and Grimes.

The Generals have two matches this week at home, Thurs-
day against Eastern Mennonite and Saturday versus Goucher.

lead. . . again

Moses dove into the endzone from a yard out to tie the
game for W&L, but these were the last points the Generals
would put on the board. Davidson scored the garne-wiri-
ning touchdown late in the third quarter on a 29-yard touch-
down strike from Tyrance to wide receiver Mike Chase, thus
ending another high-scoring aﬁair, 35-28.

Batcheller set two more records this week, once again
helping to take a little focus away from the negative as-
pects of being 1-4. The senior signal-caller broke Brooke
F ischer’s record for career passing yards with 5,030, and
total offense with 5,282.

When asked to comment on another excellent perfor-
mance by the Generals, senior Mike Moore responded, “It’s
hard to sit here and talk like a meat-head when you loose.”

The Generals hope to be able to talk like meat-heads after
they visit Hampden-Sydney on Saturday at 1:00.

V-ball 7 -0 ODAC

By Sarah Schmidt

STAFF WRITER

W&L volleyball started off the week with a sound thump-
ing of ODAC opponent Sweet Briar on Tuesday, sending the
Vixens home after limiting them to a total of nine points (15-4,
15-3, 15-2). The Generals were led by sophomore middle
blocker Lindsay Ruckert who tallied ﬁve kills, ﬁve digs and

four aces. Senior outside hitter Nancy Reinhart added four
kills, four aces, and six digs, while junior outside hitter Tori
Hays came up with ten digs. Junior setter Pam Salsbury led
all setters with 13 set assists.

On Fridaygcthe Generals faced stiffer competition with
Greensboro College, who at seventh, ranks one seed above
W&L. The Generals fell shy of pulling off the big win, taking
the match to ﬁve games before falling ( 16-14, 3-15, 16- 14, 4-
15, 7-15). The Generals put up a strong ﬁght, with Ruckert
amassing 21 kills and 10 digs. Reinhart knocked down twelve
kills and salvaged 14 digs, setting a new ODAC record for
career digs with a total of 1305.

“We had our chances,” sophomore outside hitter Lee
Charbonet said, “they just capitalized on our mistakes.”

The Generals took Greensboro to extra points twice, pull-
ing out the win both times, but struggled to score in two
games. ‘‘It was sort of a wake up call, we need to concentrate
on every game,” Charbonet remarked. The Generals will get
two more shots at Greensboro, playing them in the Emory
Tournament and at home in the W&L tri-match October 23.

The week wasn’t over for the Generals, who stayed in
Greensboro for another match, this time against conference

. opponent Guilford on Saturday. After dropping the first game,

W&L fought back to beat the Quakers in four games (13-15,
15-4, 15-12, 15-7). Leading the way for the Generals attack
were once again Ruckert and Reinhart.

The Generals now stand at 13-3 overall and 7-0 in the
ODAC, where they rank first. Their next contest will be Fri-
day when they travel to Atlanta for the Emory Tournament.

AT TIAA-CREF,
LOW EXPENSES ARE
A HIGH PRIORITY.

All ﬁnancial companies charge
operating fees and expenses —
some more than others. Of course, the
lower the expenses you pay, the better.
That way, more of your money goes

where it should - toward building a

comfortable future.-

As the largest retirement system in
the world,1 we have among the lowest
expenses in the insurance and mutual

fund industries.2

In fact, TIAA-CREFS 0.35% average
fund expenses are a fraction of the
expense charges of comparable funds.3

It's one reason why Morningstar says,

“TIA/\—CREF sets the standard in the

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.”

ﬁnancial services industry."

A focus on your future
Of course, expenses are only one factor
to consider when you make an invest-
ment decision. Morningstar also noted
our commitment to "consumer education,
service" and “solid investment perfor-
mance." Because that can make a differ-

ence in the long run, too.

At TIA/\—CREF, we believe people
would like to spend more in retirement.
not on their retirement company. Today,
over two million people count on that
approach to help them build ﬁnancial

security. 30 can you.

To ﬁnd out more — give us
a call or visit our website

1 800 842-2776

www.tiaa-crcf.org

1 Baud on $250 billion in assets under managt-ment. 2 5I&uI1aIIi& Pwrslmaimmr RallrgAnaIysis, I.99.9,‘and Lippvr Analytical Services, lnc., Lipper-Dlrrcrasv/4IIaIylkaIDaIa /.999
(quarterly). 3Mum/n/;.slar I41:-i.2nI(-AnIiIIiII‘:.\*/I.i/r, 6/30/I999. Of the 6.332 variable annuities ll'IM.‘k(‘d by Mnrningstar. the average fund had total foes combining annual expenses of 0.84%
plus an ivlsurance expense of 1.26%. TIAA-CREF cxpciises are subju-t to change and am not guaranteed for the future. Past pcrfnrrnant-o is no guarantm nr future multt. TIAA-CREF
Individual and lnsllluliimal Services distributes CREF t'L‘rlil'ICalL*1 and sntomts in the TIAA Real Estate Account. For more tomplolc information. including charges and expenses. can
1 800 8422775. extensiuit 5509. For pnispcvtuses. Read them carefully before you invest or send money.

8/99

 

You’re about to graduate.

You’ve i sopent years rising tointellectuaI ch
pulling all-nighters,“ meeting impossib

Now you can Ian
you’ll beph

Issued by Credit Suisse First Boston (Europe) Limited: regulated by SFA.

PAGE 6

L:
.se§€j_s_
$259.
0 LN
o°o
zées
oese

04-»

LAST WORD

OCTOBER 11, 1999

In defense of bigotry and homophobia

By Kevin McManemin

20% WORSE THAN LAST WEEK ’sf

I’m sorry for misleading you there;
this article isn’t quite a defense of big-

Votry. Catchy little headline, though,
‘wasn’t it? Really catches the eye, eh?

But this article is about bigotry, and
about the new liberal academic method
of dealing with it — a method that rea-

I sonable people should ﬁnd disturb-

ing at least and disgusting at best. Yes,
it’s the P.C. belief that intolerance is
such a vile threat to campus life that
the only way to combat it is with —
you guessed it —— more intolerance.
This zero-tolerance-for-intolerance
policy has reared its oxymoronic little
head on our fair, be-columned campus
in a couple of recent events. What do
we do when a student makes fun of

our gay EC president on WLUR?
Why, we yank his show off the air
faster than they cancelled “The Chevy
Chase Show” and silence him, of
course! And what if some fratboy
made an ass of himself spewing racist
and anti-Semitic comments to a fresh-
man who summarily ran home crying
to mommy? We scramble to find a fit-
ting combination of suspensions and
probations to punish him.

Our answer to combating prejudice
is to punish those who don’t agree
with the ruling cagnoscenti like a
bunch of naughty children. We treat a
complex social problem as if it were as
simple as a four-year—old caught with
his hands in the cookie jar.

Don’t get me wrong; I’m not sug-
gesting we take a big happy “let’s hug
the bigots” stance. Anyone who still

judges others by race, ethnicity or
sexual preference is, quite simply, a
drooling, troglodytic half-wit, hardly
worthy of our respect.

But, damn it, this is America—— the
land of drooling, troglodytic half—witsl
And the one thing that binds all Ameri-
cans, besides an abiding love for Wal-
Mart’s low, low prices, is the belief in
the liberty of individual thought.

At least it used to be, back before
academia deemed liberty an arcane
phallocentric concept (or even worse:
“Eurocentric!”). In most history
classes today, The Bill of Rights has
probably been replaced with an eco-
feminist, Afro-centric, neo-Marxist
policy statement. James Madison and
bell hooks are duking it out for spots
on cramped curricula across the coun-
try and, tragically, it’s not looking

good for ol’ Jimmy.

And now it looks like this trend is
finally hitting W&L, which much like
Lexington’s lovely State Theater, al-
ways seems to get things about eight
years after they hit it big in the rest of
civilization.

So the main question here is: do
we, as Americans, have a right to back-
ward thought? And the answer is, of
course, “well, if we ain’t jailing the
Amish, I guess we do.” But here at
Washington and Lee University, we
apparently only have the right to agree
with the administration’s politics.
Never mind that a sizable portion of
this country believes that homosexu-
ality is utterly morally reprehensible
—— we clearly know better than them,
and if you don’t toe the party line with
your beliefs, you’ll be punished for

Tell a psychic friend to go see

“The Sixth Sense

By Brian Prisco
PHI MOVIE GUY

This isn’t going to be so much a
movie review as a commercial. I have
no stake in the movie, other than the
fact that it was shot in Philadelphia,
but I always support worthy causes.
Most of you have already seen “The
Sixth Sense.” If you haven’t, why the
hell are you reading this! Put down
the newspaper, drop what you are do-
ing and get over the movies, you silly
bastard. Now!

“The Sixth Sense” is one of the
greatest movies ever made. Not only
is the plot stunning and captivating,
but it offers perhaps the most intrigu-
ing twist ending in film history. M.
Night Shyamalan wrote and directed

 

 

01999 The Coca-Cola Company. ‘Noun’ in I registered trndsmalk licensed to Coca-Cola Nulla Rclroahmonla Compnny, USA.

 

this fabulous ﬁlm, and deserves more
accolades than David E. Kelley and
his lawyer crap. Plus, for once, the
acting is magnificent. Bruce Willis
delivers a top-notch performance as
expected. However, even he can’t out-
shine Haley Joel Osment. This kid had

els like a Shakespearean plot. Yeah, you
know what happens, but it’s like being
in on a wonderful secret. It just in-
creases the overall entertainment
value.

Look, a bunch of people went to
see “Titanic” a billion times, and that

Oscar, or I’m per-
s o n a l l y
ﬂrebombing the

better win the

3.

left nut. If you paid
more than three
times to see that

_ movie sucked my

entire god damn
movie Academy.

The purpose
of this review
isn’t so much to convince you to see
the movie, but to go see it again. “The
Sixth Sense” deserves a second view-
ing, and a third, and a fourth. It just
keeps getting better. The story unrav-

FREE. Offer expires 11/15/99.

(WORTH THE FULL PRICE
OFADMISSION)

Now might be a good time to grab a COOL from Nestea at
the Convenience Store, 1350 Miller Dr. N Gar Hurricane Ct.
Better still, use this coupon to buy one 2002 and get one

movie, I curse you
with flaming syphi-
litic warts on your
genitals that even
Valtrex can’t hope to cure. May your
children and your children’s children
suffer for your unspeakable act.

This movie actually lives up to the
hype. It makes “Blair Witch Project”

9 9 Good news: Hollywood still producing
great post-“Blair Witch” horror ﬂicks

look like a bunch of drunk college kids
running around the woods with a
camcorder. This movie will give you
chills. “Some lady died in that acci-
dent up there.”

“Can you see, honey? Where is
she?”

“Standing next to my window.” Oh
my God! This movie will do for
goosebumps what Psycho did for
showers. You will leave the theatre feel-
ing like you got your money’s worth.

So go, now, to see “The Sixth
Sense.” It’s not like there’s anything
better in the movies. What else are you
going to go see? “For Love of the
Game?” “Mystery, Alaska?” lfl
wanted to see old people playing pro-
fessional sports, I’d watch WCW
wrestling.

them.

Now, thanks to great advances in
modern newspaper technology, I’m
able to tell what most of you are think-
ing at this very moment. And frankly
I’m disgusted and think it would work
just as well without the harness. But
the other thing you’re thinking is,
“Gee, Kevo, you’ve really missed the
mark on this issue. We’re not punish-
ing the bigots for their beliefs, we’re
punishing them for their actions. Their
words were hurtful to other people, and
that’s wrong.”

Well that’s actually a pretty good
argument, except for the fact that in
order to make it you have to ignore a
rather glaring double standard. If it’s
really about the action and not the
thought, then Dean Howison would
have to suspend everybody who’s
ever said hurtful or nasty things.
Classes would be as barren as a meet-
ing of the Mississippi MENSA chap-
ter. The only reason these stories
showed up on the Phi and Trident ’s
news radars in the first place is not
because someone said something
mean, but because someone said some-
thing mean and politically incorrect.

The fact is that if Rich Groner had
made fun of Jeff Cook for anything
else, we never would have heard a
thing about it. He only got in trouble

Complaint letter count

<1>

Huzzah! Now we're roll-
ing!

Insulted this week:

— I think the headline
rather speaks for itself.
Pretty much any compas-
sionate, good, kind-hearted
person should end up upset.

because he blasted Cook on an issue '

that triggers knee-jerk reactions from
thin-skinned, bleeding-heart losers.
The Thought Police decided that no,
Mr. Groner, you are not entitled to
voice your opinions on that matter.
Saying that Jeff Cook is a sucky presi-
dent or calling him cocky would be
hurtful but perfectly OK, but mix and
match a little and suddenly Chairman
Mao is prodding you in the back with
a bayonet.

Bottom line: bigotry of any kind is
entirely morally and philosophically
indefensible, right? So why are we
afraid to let the bigots talk? The only
truth that will come out of their mouths
will be the truth of their own feeble-
minded imbecility.

 

Kindly make way for W&L’s new Thought Police, racing to
save us from ourselves. image counesy of www.spunk.org

 

 

Carson Chambers

 

Jessica Morton

 

Caroline Sozzi

KD congratulates. . .

Homecoming nominees

 

Kelly Sewell

 

Julie Horowitz

White Book Review Committee

President of the Class of 2002

 

 

Kelly Sewell

 

Jen Davis

Stacy McLaughlin
/-I  

