  

 

A och

«~€’?>7‘8.'I55

‘P

I
/

 

/4.

O1

‘[{~3‘.£S2.
V-I03:
H0-I2.
i¢_,¢,M_

.lf».$.?f.f" ° t“**"“ '72:: l.E'é3RAP.‘«’
\I’\.'.2:?--I .

    

 U ?\é :3/'ER.‘3lT‘-.I'

 ~ 1 tioi, —./A 

K«‘¥'~..« .

  

Clip: ﬂing-tum lﬂlii

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITv’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

VOLUME 102, No.12

Senior charged
with rape, sodomy

Dorm counselor accused by Sweet Briar
student in alleged January incident

By Vanessa Chen

S TA FF WRITER

Washington and Lee University
senior James McKnight was arrested
on Tuesday, Oct. 19, after a female
Sweet Briar College student alleged
that he forcibly raped and
sodomized her. McKnight serves as
Washington and Lee assistant dorm
counselor.

The alleged incident took place
in Graham-Lees Dormitory on Jan.
30 ofthis year when the female vic-
tim was 18 years-old. Now 19, she
reported the incident to the police
earlier this month after privately un-
dergoing counseling. According to
Sergeant Wayne Straub, the inves-
tigating ofﬁcer, she now feels ready
to testify against her alleged at-
tacker.

“Oftentimes, a victim doesn't
come forward right away and that
poses a problem for the police,”
Straub said.

Vicky Agnor, the victim/witness
coordinator for the Lexington Com-
monwealth Attorney, is working
with the victim and believes this will
be a difficult case because the vic-
tim did not go to the hospital or the
police right away.

“It's not typical of a rape victim
to go right to the police, but that’s
what they need to do,” Agnor said.
“It makes this case harder because
there's no DNA evidence and it's
been a while since the attack oc-
curred.”

In a case like this, it will be
McKnight's word against the
victim's.

Janette Boyes-Ramos, a forensic
nurse examiner at Stonewall Jackson
Hospital, says that it's best for a vic-
tim to go the hospital right away so
the physical evidence can be pre-
served.

“After 72 hours, there's not much
point in doing it,” Boyes-Ramos
said. “But with rape trauma, a lot of
times this doesn't happen.”

Forcible rape and forcible sod-
omy are felonies, each ofwhich car-
ries the punishment of more than one
year in prison. Sodomy is deﬁned
as oral and/or anal intercourse. The
preliminary hearing is scheduled for
Nov. 16, but is subject to change and
could be continued into December.

There is a preliminary hearing any-
time there is a felony charge and the
victim must testify at it. Ifthejudge
decides there is probable cause, it
will go on to the grandjury in circuit
court. The grand jury is a group of
private citizens who hear evidence
in the case and decide whether or
not to return an indictment against
the defendant. If the defendant is
indicted, the case will go to trial and
the defendant must plead guilty or
not guilty at his arraignment. Dur-
ing the trial, the plaintiff will be
called to testify against the defen-
dant.

Agnor says that for the victim,
telling her story at each stage ofthe
judicial process will be the most dif-
ficult task.

“You have a defense attorney
asking you lots of questions and we
try to prepare them for that,” Agnor
said. “We let them know it's going
to get harder with every step of the
process.”

Usually, the defense attorney will
bring the victim's character into
question and try to establish doubt
as to whether what occurred was
rape or consensual sex. Straub
agrees that this part of the court pro-
cess is the hardest for the victim.

“The way this [judicial] system’s
set up, a lot of times the victim is
victimized again by the system it-
self,” Straub said.

If McKnight is convicted of a
felony, he could lose his ROTC
scholarships and consequently
have to repay the money. For
McKnight, this would be approxi-
mately $100,000 because he was on
a full scholarship. Even if he is not
convicted, just having felony
charges on his record would seri-
ously hinder the military career
McKnight is intending to pursue. He
would also face disciplinary action
from the Student/Faculty Hearing
Board at Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. The Board of Trustees could
postpone or withhold his degree if
he is convicted.

In the meantime, the victim is
working on her case with Agnor and
receiving counseling. McKnight de-
clined to comment, but has already
spoken to his hall about the incident
and moved out of his dorm room.
Dorm counselors Colin Tate and

photo by Arne Kuhlman/The Trident

I’M CRAZY NAPKIN HEAD: A student and his father enjoy lunch
zogether during the weekend’s festivities.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1999

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

MOM, DAD, THIS IS. . . Junior Bryant Adams and his parents talk with Professor of history Ted Delaney on the Lee House lawn
during the parents’ luncheon on Saturday.

Group to educate local youth

Michael Crittenden will share re-
sponsibility for McKnight's hall. His
responsibilities as assistant head
dorm counselor will be split among
the other assistant heads.

Straub is still investigating the
incident and interviewing people. He
wants to gather as much information
as he can about the case in order to
be fair to both sides.

“I’m just trying to ﬁnd out the
truth and in this case, that's the hard-
est thing,” Straub said.

By Michael Crittenden

NEWS EDITOR

A new education group hopes to
expand campus awareness and in-
volvement in local schools and edu-
cational issues.

The yet-to-be-named group was
started by junior Dan Birdwhistell and

Live Drive back in
the saddle again

By Michael Crittenden

NEWS EDITOR

Picture this, you and your roommates
have all been drinking out at your coun-
try house on a Friday night and you
really want to go see The Breakfast Club
in town. Thinking that you are “okay”
to drive, you grab your keys and head
out the door. Instead of all piling into
your car and making the long, drunken
drive into town, however, you suddenly
see a ﬂier above the door with the num-
ber 462-8 1 00, the number to Live Drive.
That’s when you remember the history
of students who have died in drunken-
driving accidents, and the stiff penal-
ties for getting caught. That’ s when you
call.

“Sometimes I really want to get into
town and drive drunk,” said a junior who
asked to remain anonymous. “Live
Drive gives me a chance to not have to
do that.”

Live Drive is a Washington and Lee

volunteer organization the provides
sober drivers for students on Wednes-
day, Friday and Saturday nights from
10 p.m. until 2 a.m. Three or four stu-
dent drivers take calls at the Live Drive
number and pick up students around
Rockbridge County and take them where
they want to go. Organization president
Christie Phillips said that sometimes stu-
dents get a little ridiculous asking for
rides, but for the most part students re-
spect the student drivers.

“We occasionally have people who
will ask for a ride six or seven times a
night, back and forth between places,
just as a joke,” said Phillips. “Most stu-
dents, however, appreciate the program

and don't abuse it.”

The current Live Drive program was
started approximately four years ago by
former student Charles Allen, said
Phillips. When Allen graduated last year
it fell to Phillips to take over and orga-
nize the driving service. The transition
of power was not as smooth as pos-
sible said Phillips. This is why Live Drive
wasn't available at the beginning of the
year.

“Charles [Allen] didn't leave me with
much information to help me organize
this,” Phillips said. “At the beginning
of the year we didn't always have people
driving, but now things are going well.”

Live Drive is staffed by volunteers
from the major campus organizations,
such as the fraternities and sororities,
who assign three or four drivers on their
speciﬁed night. Drivers must provide
their own cars for the evening, and are
paid for gas at the end of the night. Ac-
cording to some drivers, it is not that
bad a way to spend an evening.

“l’ve done before and it isn't that
bad,”junior Dillon Whisler said. “This
program saves students lives. It’s prob-
ably one of the best programs this cam-
pus has.”

‘ Drivers are each reimbursed for their
time and gas at the end of the night.
Phillips said that each driver receives
ﬁve dollars from Live Drive’s limited
budget.

“Right now we have enough money
to function for the year with the $1,900
the Executive Committee gave us,”
Phillips said. “If we had more money we
could make this program work a lot

SEE ‘LIVE’ ON PAGE 2

sophomore Brooks Hickman as a fo-
rum for educational discussions, and
as an outlet for Washington and Lee
students who want to volunteer their
time for educational pursuits.

“Our goal is three—fold. First, we
want to discuss education reform is-
sues; second, we want to increase tu-
toring opportunities at local schools;
and third, we are planning many ser-
vice projects to do with the kids,”
Birdwhistell said.

Birdwhistell said that the main fo-
cus of the group would be to orga-
nize the numerous tutoring programs
that already exist on campus. Accord-
ing to Birdwhistell, there are many op-
portunities available on campus, but
they are widespread and not well or-
ganized.

“A lot oftimes, students only vol-
unteer when they see a ﬂier or hear
about an opportunity from a friend,”
Birdwhistell said. “We hope to act as
a central clearinghouse for tutoring
on campus, in order to increase in-
volvement.”

The other main focus of the group
is going to be enrichment projects at
local schools, according to freshman
group member Jane Ledlie. Ledlie said
that the projects will expand On tu-
toring by involving students at local
schools in activities they would not
normally participate in.

“We want to give students an op-

portunity to learn and experience
things they otherwise wouldn't be
able to,” Ledlie said. “One idea we
had was to take underprivileged stu-
dents from local schools to the zoo in
Washington DC.”

Birdwhistell said other ideas in-
cluded having Washington and Lee
students act as college counselors for
Rockbridge County High School stu-
dents. W&L students would act as a
resource for questions the high
school students had about the appli-
cation process, college essays and on
choosing the right college.

Initial response for the group has
been quite positive said Birdwhistell
and Ledlie. Birdwhistell said that one
reason for this is the need for a group
of this type on campus.

“There is a void for people who
are concerned with education issues
that must be filled,” Birdwhistell said.
“The Future Teachers of America
(F.T.A.) is more career-oriented, and
doesn't ﬁll the service role that we
hope to.”

The F.T.A. is a student group fo-
cused on academic and career issues
for Washington and Lee students
who are interested in teaching. W&L
doesn't offer an education major, but
interested students can receive their
teaching certiﬁcation through Mary

SEE ‘EDUCATION’ ON PAGE 2

November 1, 1999
OPINION:

W&LIFE:

Mock Con and me

SPORTS:

LAST WORD:

@112 iﬁing-tum iﬂhi

Swim coach questions EC

Generals stun Parents’ Weekend crowd

News according to McManemin

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

PAGE 5

PAGE 6

 

 

PAGE 2

‘EDUCATION’ from page 1""'-“"

Baldwin College. F.T.A. member Erin Partridge said that
she hopes the two groups can work in conjunction.

“Because we (the F.T.A.) are academic-oriented, and
the new education group is more service-oriented, the
two groups should be able to help each other,” Partridge
said. “I can deﬁnitely see us working together in the
future.”

Student interest was very positive at the education
group’s first meeting said Birdwhistell. He said 30 stu-
dents were at the meeting, and 20 more had called him
about getting involved with tutoring or teaching oppor-
tunities. He said the group members are very positive
and that he is looking forward to a successful future for
the group.

“This is something Washington and Lee needs. We
are going to consolidate the tutoring opportunities on
campus and give students an even greater opportunity
to give back to the local community. This is a college
campus that’s resources in education go untapped be-
cause there is no mechanism to encourage involvement.
We hope to be that mechanism.”

‘LIVE’ from page 1

smoother, however.”

Phillips said that Live Drive is going to apply for a
grant that would give it enough money to expand its abil-
ity to serve students. The new money could be used to
pay drivers more money, and to buy much needed cellular
phones for drivers.

“The greatest problem with Live Drive is that once a
driver is out on a run we have no way of reaching them,”
Phillips said. “With cell phones we would be able to reach
people while they were out driving and be much more
efficient.”

Many other schools have similar programs to Wash-
ington and Lee's. The University of San Diego has a pro-
gram where students can call for a taxi, and then the school
will reimburse the taxi company for the fare. USD junior
Luke Piepkom said that the program has helped him more
than once.

“I have thought about driving home before, aﬁer I've
been drinking, but I always remember to call a cab,”
Piepkom said. “It’s stupid to drive drunk, but sometimes I
need to get home. The program has probably saved my
life.”

With a number of students living off campus, drinking
and driving is a major issue at Washington and Lee. Ac-
cording to Phillips, students have to realize there is a bet-
ter alternative.

“People [at this school] think that because this is Lex-
ington there is no need to worry about driving drunk.
Well there is, and we don't need a fatality to prove it. Live
Drive is here for the students, so use it.”

RHYMES
WIT».   PIE

Tastes like it, too —
hot and creamy with vanilla,
cinnamon and cloves.
Try CHAI at our free tastings
each Saturday in November,
and take home a bottle at 20% off.

llX.l,.N|]lﬂN

r_.;‘.//.1.-.(/.'.....t-//4., an

ESPRESSO - CAPPUCCINO
FRESH ROASTED COFFEES - FINE TEAS
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET
LEXINGTON 0 464-6586

@112 Tiling-tum iﬂlli

EWS

 

Academic major nights to be held

The first week in November, on Monday, Tuesday
and Wednesday, there will be academic peer mentoring
done by the residence life staff. Almost all majors will
be covered in one of the three nights. Monday is Sci-
ence and C-school night, Tuesday is foreign languages,
and Wednesday is humanities. Each major will have an
approximately 20 minute talk, with a question and an-
swer session at the end. All freshman and sophomores
are encouraged to attend! Look for signs in the D—hall
and on the residence halls for exact times. All meetings
will be held in the C-School. Ifthere are any questions,
please contact Sula Jacobs at x4490.

Glasgow Endowment poetry reading

The Glasgow Endowment is sponsoring a program
on November 9th in bilingual poetry with readings by

Lamont Prize winning poet, Marilyn Kacker, and French
Poet Claire Malroux. It will be at 5pm in Northern Audi-
torium on Tuesday, November 9th.

PRIDE to host discussion

On Tuesday evening (November 2, 1999) PRIDE (Pro-
gramming for the Respect oflndividuals and Diversity
in Education) will host a talk by Burr Datz concerning
homosexuality and tolerance. An open discussion will
follow. It will be held at 7:00 p.m. in Northern Audito-
rium in the Leyburn Library.

Flu vaccine available on campus

The Student Health Center is offering the flu vac-
cine for $5 to W&L students, faculty and staff and
immediate family members (age 13 or over). The vac-
cine can significantly reduce your chances of com-
ing down with the flu this winter, and if it doesn’t
offer complete protection, should lessen the sever-
ity of the illness. Most people with the flu recover
completely, but are usually sick for several days to a
week or more. Flu is especially severe in people with
underlying chronic illness and may progress to pneu-
monia to other complications. The virus is easily
transmitted in college and dorm environments, and

LET TIAA—CREF HELP
YOU BUILD A SECURE
FINANCIAL FUTURE.

F or over 80 years, TlAA—CREF has
been the leading retirement company
on Americas campuses. But -experience is
just one reason why so many smart
investors trust us with their ﬁnancial

future. Here are a few more:

Superior strength

With over $250 billion in assets under man-
agement, TIAA-CREF is the world's largest
retirement organization — and among the
most solid. It’s one of the reasons why

Momingstar says, “TIAA-CREF sets the

standard in the ﬁnancial services industry.”

Solid, long—term
performance

We seek out long-term opportunities that
other companies, in pursuit of quick gains,
often miss. Though past performance can't
guarantee future results, this patient philos-

ophy has proven extremely rewarding.

oppotgotQllo'

LEXINGTON SHOP FOR PAPPA GALLO

Lots of formals

Indies’ Sl/IOES, Qloilling and

flccessolries

Z)’ N /l/.71}; Street‘
465’-$986’

 

 

 

New ,2: 

   

 

credit hietioryv  o

Surprisingly low expenses

TIAA-CREPE operating costs are among
the lowest in the insurance and mutual
fund industries.Z So more of your money
goes where it should — toward ensuring

your future.

Easy diversiﬁcation

We offer a wide variety of expertly
managed investment options to help build
your assets. We make it simple, too, with
stock, bond, money market, real estate,

and guaranteed options.

Unrivaled service

We believe that our service distinguishes
us from every other retirement company.
In the most recent Dalbar survey,
TIA/-\-CREF ranks tops in participation
satisfaction.3
Call today to ﬁnd out how TIAA-

CREF can help you build the ﬁnancial

future you want and deserve.

To ﬁnd out more — give us
a call or visit our website

1 800 842-2776

NOVEMBER 1, 1999
A

outbreaks are common on college campuses. Flu is
most common in the U.S. from December through
March so it is best to get vaccinated between Early
October and mid-November.

The vaccine will not give you the ﬂu, because it‘
is a killed virus vaccine. It generally causes only
mild side effects such as a sore or tender arms at the
injection site, or possibly fever, chills, headache or
muscle aches for 24 to 48 hours. People with a seri-g
ous allergy to eggs should not take the vaccine, and
anyone with a fever, acute respiratory or other ac-
tive infection or illness should wait until they have
recovered to get the vaccine. For more information
visit the CDC web site at: http://www.cdc.gov/nip/'
vaccine/flu.htm. The flu vaccine will be available at
the University Center from 1la.m. to 1 p.m. on No-
vember 1, 2, 15 and 16 and December 6 and 7. It is
also available at the Student Health Center anytime}
(except between 12-1 p.m. and 6-7 p.m. daily). Stu-
dents may bill the $5 charge home.

V mo ALTERATION,

qr,
\

U

l.’

D0/V’TFOzf(7’£'T
/I/06'/{
6'0/VI/Hi/770/W

22 N. Main Street 1
464-4001
Open: 8 am-6 pm, Monday
through Saturday

I

® TOYOTA

TOYOTA-101 *

  MORE VALUE/LE55 MONEY .
 INTRODUCING wrwaw

 TOYOTA ECHO 

Sta  $1O,OOO — About n2,OOO well equipped.

THEl’<‘E’9 AN ECHO OUT THERE! Great looke on the outeide, great room on the ineide.
Cruiee the highway at 40 Mi’G’...very thrifty. Power? Plenty! lt’e a 1.5 liter hi—teoh
16 valve DOCH engine with variable valve timing (new) that l<icl<e out 108 horeepower
any time you want it. And beet of all, Echo etarte atjuet $9,995?

 thru Toyota Motor Credit helpe thoee with limited
r leaee a new Echo or Celica. See dealer for details.

r $ TOYOTA real values. every day. -1 Wwwg at-toyo-ta _ C O m ‘

'EPA estimated 32/39 City/Hwy automatic, 34/41 City/Hwy manual. ‘Base MSRP excluding transportation, tax, tags and regionally required equipment.

1
lil-
'1
rl

‘D

     

This wise old bird
5

suggests that you study
and let someone else

worry about your travel 1
plans. Call the pros...

Ensuring the future g
for those who shape it.“ www.tlaa—cr Cf.O1‘g . .
Travel Un [muted
1Mnm1ngszu Variable Annulllesﬂﬂi, 6/30/99. 25landani & Paws Insumnre Il7a!1ngAnaIysI.s 1999; and Llpper Analytical Services. Inc., Lrpper-Dlnmxs 'AmIyu¢xIDau, 1999 (quarterly). 4 6 3 -71 
3DALBAR, lnc.. 1997Denm/ Carllrlbutlm Emllam Ratings. For more complete . Including charges and expenses. call 1 800 842-2733, ext. 5509, for CREF and TIAA Real Esme . A
A I 2 .R dthe fIl_bcfa I a .11AA-CREFIndlvld lundl u u lsewl dlstrlb CREF nlﬁ nndln l !heTlAAReal  kb d
 USES Cl T7‘ CHIC U V re y0U HVESI O!‘ 59'“ T7|0|'Ey U3 "S ‘U 0115 1 “I5 W CJCBS KEIESE n 8/W    H  r i
ll I

R

 

NOVEMBER I , 1999

@112 ﬁling-tum lﬂlii

PINION

PAGE 3

Keep your clothes on;
buttons on Wrong side

And so another Parents’ Weekend comes to a close,
and once again I sit here writing another editorial. 1 must
say, however, that I am rather blank with topics to write on
this week. Yeah our parents got drunk, made asses out of
themselves like we do every week, and generally had a
great time while only getting on our nerves a little bit. I
actually was orphaned this weekend, but that’s another
half-baked story of donnybrooks, burning boots, and ﬁre-
crackers. Not for the timid of heart. So unfortunately, I
have noth-
ing of real
interest to
write about
Parents
W e e k e n d ,
except that I had a good time having beers on the porch of
Morris House the other day. So instead I had a fairly mel-
low weekend, hanging out with Brother Shake J imson, be-
ing on the sidelines for the best football game in school
history, and meeting the parents of all the little hellions —I
mean freshmen that enjoy keeping me up until 4 a.m. So in-
stead of writing the same old story about your fraternity
brother’s crazy milf who you were sure you could hook-up
with, I am going to write about something much more excit-
ing: the reason why men’s and women’s clothes button dif-
ferently.

Word has it from an expert source that there is a definite
historical reason for the seemingly useless difference be-
tween the buttoning side of men’s and women’s clothes.
The alleged reason is that back in the 15th and 16th centu-
ries, women were dressed by others. (can I still apply for
this?) Thus we owe the current confusion in the minds of
clothiers today to women who were too lazy to dress them-
selves. What, it was too difﬁcult being a member of the
royal court, beat up from playing too much croquet, smil-
ing too much etc.?

LETTERS TO

Admissions diversity attempt
takes away from school

 Bad<porch Balderdash

v Michael Crittenden ’01

  

Dear Editor,

When ‘you see reviews of Washington & Lee, you
see things like big “Greek school, big beer drinking
school, big liquor school, happiest students on cam-
pus, rich in tradition, and the most homogeneous cam-
pus.

Unfortunately, I feel all ofthis is about to change.

People that come to this school, come here for what
it is known for. Grandparents, parents, brothers, and
sisters all attend W&L because of the great stories
they heard about how the school was back when. I
came here for somewhat similar reasons.

I hadn’t heard of W&L until late in high school, at
which time I started doing research on it and learning
about its history and characteristics. This is when I
ran across the items mentioned above. I was intrigued.
I was curious. I wanted to know more.

I applied to many schools of varying sizes and char-
acteristics. I chose to come to W&L because of what I
saw when I visited. I saw people who werejust like me.
I saw a beautiful campus filled will happy students and
rich tradition.

What I did not see then, I am beginning to see now.

I am seeing students segregate themselves from each

Cilia ﬂing-tum lﬁlii

Polly Doig
Hollister Hovey
Michael Crittenden
Stephanie Bianco
Ginger Phillips
Elianna Marziani
Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin
Heather McDonald
Emily Barnes

Executive Editor
Associate Editor
News Editor
Opinions Editor
W&Life Editors

Sports Editor
Last Word Editor
Copy Editor
Photo Editor

Assistant Photo Editors Lisa Lin
David Hanson
Layout Editor Neal Willetts
Circulation Director Leo Brown

Advertising Director Frances Groberg

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 ofthe University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Ofﬁce: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wIu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

There is also the more widely accepted idea that the
buttons are on the other side for women because women
are trying to make it that much more difﬁcult for men to
take off their clothes; not put them on, as women would

.have you believe happened “historically.” Instead, I be-
lieve it is an evil plot by women of the same ilk as bras in
trying to confound men and see how blue the human body
can get. Not to say that either obstacle is really that hard in
figuring out, but come on, are you trying to tell us that
women’s clothes couldn’t have more velcro or snaps? How
hard would it really be to make a good Velcro underwire?
This is how they get you. Instead of making it easy they
make it purposely hard, like an extra row of concentina
wire outside of a bunker. Well fortiﬁed with their confus-
ing buttons and triple loop clasp bras, they entice and
then entrap innocent men everywhere. In fact, there is
probably a secret women’s newsletter that is mailed around
to every estrogen-gifted human on the planet, consisting
solely of articles mocking men who were too excited to be
able to ﬁgure out a pair of button-ﬂy jeans or the one-handed
front clasp removal technique.

Thus, it becomes obvious that the reason that women’s
clothes have buttons on the wrong side is that they are
inherently evil beings that revel in teasing us poor de-
fenseless males who are merely captivated by their beauty
and faux gentility. It also makes it hard for women and men
to exchange clothes. Sure a woman can figure out how to
wear a button down as a sexy night shirt, but how are we
supposed to figure out how a cardigan set works? Not
that I know how, or what, a cardigan set is, but say . . . oh
nevermind. Just remember men, women are trying to get
you everyday, with those innocent smiles, Miracle bras
and “let’s just be friends,” they are out there to get you.
This is why we must strike back. A man, or cabal of men,
need to take over the lingerie and clothes industries, insti-
tuting mandatory Velcro and easy-undo buttons at all
costs. Otherwise, we will be lost.

THE EDITOR

other. Notjust by race, but by their general character-
istics.

People always complain that the speaking tradition
isn’t being upheld. Well, this is the reason why.

The root of the problem is the W&L Admissions.
They seem to be seeking out diversity of all types.
Racial.diversity. Interest diversity. Social diversity. And
any other diversity you can think of.

I don’t know if they are sweating now that W&L
has slipped a few notches in the Best Liberal Arts Col-
lege rankings. I don’t know ifthey are trying the find
the smart of the smart and forgetting about the rest.

Personality matters. How someone will ﬁt in and
enjoy the school and the atmosphere is important. It
must be examined in the admissions process. I don’t
feel they’re ignoring it, just not paying enough atten-
tion to it.

There are certain changes you can make in a school
that will turn out for the best. Changing this institu-
tion from all male to co-educational has deﬁnitely
turned out for the best. It has improved the reputation
of the school. It has made it more competitive. That,
my friends, is a good change.

What is happening now to W&L is a bad change.
Pretty soon, these changes that are taking place are
not only going to segregate the present students, but
are going to make the school less desirable to those
students who, like me, are looking for a big Greek school
with lots of beer drinking, rich in tradition and seam-

less.
The more admissions tries to recruit GPAs, coun-

tries, and backgrounds, the less they will be recruiting
people that belong here because of who they are.

Last year, I was chosen by some organization put-
ting together a book about college “bests” to answer
a questionnaire. They asked me what phrase sums up
our school. I said “work hard, play hard”. I’m afraid
that ifthese changes continue the phrase will be “work
hard, play with that small-speciﬁc-group-of-people-
you-feel-similar-to-and-absolutely-no-one-else hard”.
Not a good thought.

I feel the need to stress this point to everyone be-
cause it involves everyone. This is your school. Keep
it that way.

—Anonymous

M

‘I

 \Iw/ELCOMESM
EARL KEEN

.\
\ ‘ ._

.\ \ I
0 '<‘

Men’s swimming coach out-
raged with dismissal of student

Dear Editor,

In this technological era of shared infonnation, it is
inevitable, commonplace, and standard to have errant
“mouse-clicks” on a daily, if not hourly basis when work-
ing and playing on our computers. What are our “inten-
tions” when double-clicking on anything? What does
“intention” actually mean? Well, the handy pocket dic-
tionary that sits on my desk states that “intend” (v) is I)
to have in mind or plan; 2) to mean. And “intent” (n) is I)
aim; purpose; 2) volition; 3) meaning.

These are all very easy to understand. In fact, no ac-
tion or inaction can ever take place without intent. Intent
always precedes action/non-action. Granted, conse-
quences often arise from actions that are genuinely un-
intended. We, as a society, are often forgiving of unin-
tended results. In fact, in our judicial system intent is
actually the difference between manslaughter and mur-
der. So, it seems that intent would normally be a signiﬁ-
cant factor when considering the fate of an accused per-
son faciiigjail-time, couit proceedings, expulsion, or with-
drawing from school.

Except here at W&L during the “discovery” period of
the Executive Committee’s investigation of an honor vio-

lation charge.
What do I mean, you ask? Apparently, swift injustice

has again reared its ugly head on this campus. Tuesday,
October 26, 1999, a student with honor, integrity, and the
character of a true gentleman withdrew from this institu-
tion. His appointed legal advisors gave his case a “high
probability of conviction,” and helped to convince this
student that the EC would “probably not” consider the
intent of the accused’s actions. Nor did his legal advi-
sors feel that the EC would consider that this mistake
could happen to anyone [Based on reaction to this case
in a recent open forum, it has happened before, and will
continue to happen so long as we humans remain. . .
human].

So many variables directly related to his case would
senselessly be ignored during the trial. Thus, the fear
and the risk of conviction were too high for this student’s
comfort level. Who could blame him?

Leaving with a “clean record,” in order to ﬁnish a

degree somewhere else is understandable when your
“counsel” is telling you that, though you believe you are
innocent, your chances of acquittal are slim.

W&L calls this swiftjustice? I call it a shame. It is a
shame because the Executive Committee seems to relish
their “veil ofsecrecy” in dealing with honor violations———
secrecy that has no place in justice.

It is a shame because a person’s history of integrity
and gentlemanly behavior have no bearing on a legiti-
mate unintentional mistake with a “mouse click." Finally,
it is a shame that a person with this history of integrity
can’t be taken at his word. . . when his word has been
good thus far.

The Washington & Lee community should be outraged
that one more student has been hastily railroaded into
withdrawing from the university because he was con-
vinced that he would not be given the opportunity to
defend himself using every available rationale and argu-
ment in his favor. Beneﬁt of the doubt does not exist in
your current system.

Each year this school has become increasingly depen-
dent on computers and technology. W&L’s age—old honor

— system MUST be publicly scrutinized to incorporate these

advances. Ifthis case is the new precedent when sharing
ﬁles, then each student isjust a “mouse-click" away trom
withdrawal or dismissal. Scary, huh?

Andrew B. Pulsifer
Associate Professor of Physical Education
Men’s Swimming Coach

 xi uote of the Week:


N \‘.‘_-z"

(I

I always like to have my legs
spread. lt’s just the way I am.

- Anonymous sophomore girl

I}

 

“I had so much work to do, I
told my parents NOT to come.’
-Jay Duncan ‘OI

7

“Cleaned and vaccuumed for the
first time and made sure all my
‘stuff’ was in order.”

-Richard Kilby ’03

clean my room.”

“I let my roommate’s boyfriend

-Liz Powers ’0l

“Cleaned my room and made
hotel reservations a year in
advance at 7 am.”

-Steplianie Sweet ’02

 

 

PAGE 4

‘ X ’ 5 : | @112 itling-tum iﬂlii

IF E

NOVEMBER 1, 1999

Student body shows enthusiasm for M

By Ginger Phillips

F EA TURES EDITOR

On Jan. 28 and 29 the Warner Cen-
ter will be transformed once again.
This time, however, it will look unlike
anything the current Washington and
Lee University student body has seen
before. Instead of the dim lights and
elegant decorations of the Fancy Dress
Ball, students will turn the gym into a
veritable convention ﬂoor in prepara-
tion for Mock Convention 2000.

“Mock Convention is something
so unique to our school,” said fresh-
man Christina Spofford. “It sounds
like it will definitely be an interesting
and fun event to be involved in.”

If you’re not already involved with
Mock Con, however, you might be won-
dering exactly what all the hype is about.

“Mock Convention is an academic,
predictive exercise in which students
predict the nominee for the out-of-of-
ﬁce political party for the 2000 presi-
dential election,” said General Chair-
man Mark Schweppe.

_ The Mock Convention delegate fair
was held on Oct. 25 and 26 in the

Warner Center. Students ﬂocked into
the gym as soon as the doors opened
to sign up for their favorite state del-
egations.

“The delegate fair was really suc-
cessful, and over 1,300
students signed up
to participate,” $
said Kirsten 
Malm, se- C?

AND L15

  
 
 
   
  
  
  
  

pen once during my four years here,"
freshman Noelle Baer said. “I want the
chance to see what Mock Con is all
about and to experience it.”

The state delegates will fill the con-
vention ﬂoor and serve as

E the spectator and
O cheering sec-
/”/QA tion for the

events of

nior and the Mock
Midwest )\V tﬁ Conven-
R e ~ ‘$1 ([3 t i 0 n
gional 93 ‘Z week-

C o - <7: ‘"9 end.
B “People
can

 

ordinator. “We were ex-
tremely happy with the turnout, but the
excitement is just beginning.”

“I wanted to be a delegate because
I ﬁgured that Mock Con will only hap-

Michael Crittenden
NEWS EDITOR

Most Washington and Lee stu-
dents think that an 8 a.m. class is a
cruel and unusual punishment meted
out by the university to make students
pay for weekend debaucheries.

To sophomore transfer stu-
dent Katie Kennedy, however,
having to wake up at 7 to go to
her 8 a.m. Spanish class is a wel-
comed change from last year’s
5 a.m. wake up time. Last year
Kennedy was a happy go-lucky
plebe at the Naval Academy.

Deciding the fit wasn’t right
for her, Kennedy transferred to
Washington and Lee and is cur-
rently enjoying her sophomore
year while getting used to the
W&L way of life.

Signature Student
.764/ie .7(e1212eJy 702

 

enjoying the Generals’ swim program.

Kennedy also loves to watch
movies (Favorite: Last of the
Mohicans), enjoying nature, and
reading F. Scott Fitzgerald. A pro-
spective English major, Kennedy
said she would like to be a college

  

“I came to Washington and
Lee because of its reputation and the
Southern culture,” Kennedy said. “I
guess I’ve just always wanted to be
an ante-bellum southern girl.”

As expected, the transition has been
a signiﬁcant change for the standout
swimmer. Kennedy said classes here are
more analytical and involve less busy
work than she is used to. The W & L
social scene has also been a large change
from last year’s restrictions, when
Wednesday partying was a far cry from
the norm at the Academy.

“I am used to going to bed on
Wednesdays, not partying,” Kennedy
said. “It’s a whole new concept for me.”

Kennedy, who’s philosophy is to
“trust in God, but always do your
homework,” has already made her
mark in the waters of Twombly pool as
a member of the women’s swim team.
Victorious in all of her races over Par-
ents’ Weekend, Kennedy said she is

swim coach and a mother with lots
ofkids. She’d also like to work on a
ranch in Montana, riding horses and
experiencing the natural world.

One of Kennedy’s largest pas-
sions is eating, which she says she
enjoys more than almost anything.

“My ideal meal would be pizza,
ice cream and a Diet Coke,” Kennedy
said. “I also really love ﬁidge brownie
sundaes with marshmallows, cara-
mel, rainbow jimmies and whipped
cream. They are the best.”

Kennedy said she has enjoyed
Washington and Lee so far, and is
looking forward to meeting more
people and enjoying the “Washing-
ton and Lee experience.”

“The people I have met so far are
awesome and I love it here,” she said.
“It has been strange sometimes get-
ting used to the intricacies of this
place, butl like it.”

 
 
   

  

still get involved with
Mock Con,” Schweppe said. “There
will be another delegate fair held closer
to the convention in order to allow
more people to get involved and to fill
the delegations of those states that
still have openings.”

There is a long history behind the
quadrennial Mock Convention. The
first convention was held in 1908 and
students have made 16 correct pre-
dictions out oftheir 21 attempts.

W&L’s Mock Convention has
gained a reputation as the most accu-
rate of its kind through the hard work
and research conducted by students.
“The work I do as a state chair-

man is so intriguing because it’s so
hard to know how your state is going
to vote,” said Kristen Binette, senior
and New Hampshire State Chainnan.
“There is so much hard work and dedi-
cation involved to ensure that we
choose the right person, but I am con-
ﬁdent that we will make the right pre-
diction.”

Mock Con state chairs and com-
mittee members must send out hun-
dreds of letters and surveys to politi-
cal contacts who serve as invaluable
resources during the intense research
stage leading up to the convention.

“Research is definitely going well,”
Schweppe said. “We have political sur-
veys out to all the different states and
everyone is working extremely hard to
make an accurate prediction.”

The Mock Con Steering Committee
is also working to secure a variety of
prominent speakers for the convention.
Members are searching for inﬂuential
Republicans with big reputations and
politicians who will help to make the
upcoming convention truly dynamic.

Possible speakers include the Re-
publican presidential candidates,
former president George Bush, Con-
gressman J. C. Watts, House Major-
ity Whip Tom DeLay, New Jersey gov-
ernor Christine Todd Whitman and
Secretary of Education Bill Bennett.

The original date was changed from
March to January in the hope of facili-
tating a more useful political experiment.

“The date change was initiated pri-
marily to preserve the predictive na-
ture of Mock Con,” Schweppe said.
“If we had kept the March 3 date, we

 

_v
 me
“P.

  200

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

W&L students rushed to the Warner Center to sign up for
favorite state delegations last week. More than 1,300 students
are currently participating in Mock Con preparations.

would have followed 12 to 13 primaries,
but now it will definitely be more of an
experiment and generate more interest.”

Although the actual convention is
still three months away, the festivities
continue this weekend with the Presi-
dential Gala, to be held on Nov. 5 from

9:00 — l :00 p.m. in the Warner Center.
Tickets and memorabilia go on sale
Monday in the University Center.

“Mock Con is such a great way for the
whole school to work together.” Binette
said. “Excitement is building all over cam-
pus as the convention gets closer.”

 

W&L’s student musicians
sttutted their stuff as they
performed for parents.

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

Parents greeted b

 

 

y sounds of music

 

LEE CHAPEL TOGA PARTY: (Above) Acapella group Southern Comfort makes an
entrance worthy of Caesar himself. JubiLee and General Admission also
performed before a packed house during the annual Parents’ Weekend
Acapella Concert on Saturday evening.

PLAYIN’ THE NIGHT AWAY : (Left) The University Orchestra, Wind Esemble and
Jazz Band worked together to put on a wonderful show in Lenfest on Saturday
night. “It’s great to be able to perform for the parents,” junior Lauren LaFauci
said. “I’ve had so much fun doing a concert with the strings and jazz band, since
we all don’t normally get the opportunity to play together at the same time.”

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

  

 

 

UPCOMIHQ events . . . Wednesday, November 3
. 5 10:00 am. Sophomores begin Winter Term web
I . i - A I registration.
5:00 p.m. Alpha Epsilon Delta Health Profes-
' ‘ sions Seminar. “Veterinary School
Admissions,” Joyce Bohr, Virginia-
Maryland Regional College of Veteri
nary Medicine. Room 316, VMI New
Science Building.
Thursday, November 4
8:00 p.m. Lecture. “Chaucer and the Language
of Morals,” Michael Kuczynski,
V v Tulane University. Room 214,
, . Science Center.
Monday, November 1
. 10:00 am. Juniors begin Winter Term web regisI1a- Friday’ N0‘/ember 5
*  mm‘ » _ , , 10:00 am. Freshmen begin Winter Term web
4:30 p.m. Facultyr:eeung.NonhenAudnonmn, . registration
7,00,“ “L Lectmel_ «Cons?-tiona] Reform in Great 9:00p.m.- Mock Convention Gala featuring The
, g . . . =Bﬁmh,, Prof-_ Donaldsmdlm.’ west 1:00 am. Dirty Dozen Brass Band. Doremus
Room 327, Williams Gym
School. ~-
7:30 p.m. Lecture. “Environment, Population, & Sui"-lr'daY. N0‘/ember 6
 - . Consuntptionpzg Time ‘ofBreakdown-or 8;00.p.m. University-Shenandoah Symphony
Breakth'rouigh?,”“Dr. Norman Myers; ox ‘ 7 ‘5 " ‘ ’-Orchestra, Keller Theatre, Lenfest
ford University. Northen Auditorium. Center.

3 W. Nelson St.

540-464-1501

Lexington, VA 24450

 

“We’re more than just hot dogs; we also serve fresh bagels,
‘International Wrapps’and high protein smoothie.”

Mon. - Thurs. 8:00a.m. - 7:00p.m.
Fri. - 8:00a.m. - 9:00p.m.
Sat. - l1:00a.m. - 9:00p.m.

Q

3

‘H

 

NOVEMBER 1, 1999

 in s

PAGE 5 '1

Football clinches close

By Mike Weil

STAFF WRITER

For the second straight year the
W&L football team would need a seem-
ingly miraculous finish to give their
parents a victory on their weekend.
And for the second straight year an
onside kick would help provide this
miracle as W&L upended Bridgewater
College 44-38 in a game that left the
parents itching with deja—vu.

Bridgewater struck on their ﬁrst
possession as quarterback Jason Lutz
scrambled eight yards to the endzone
to give the Eagles a 7-0 lead on a drive
dominated by Bridgewater’s running
attack. The Generals would strike back
midway through the second quarter
as senior running back Scott Moses
took a handoff from one yard out for
the game-tying touchdown. The
Eagles next possession chewed up
7:41of the clock and ended on a 12-
yard touchdown pass from Lutz to re-
ceiver Corey Butts giving Bridgewater
a 14-7 lead at the half.

The Eagles would take advantage

of a Christian Batcheller interception
early in the third quarter as a 35-yard

ﬁeld goal gave them a 17-7 lead. But
the Generals would never stop ﬁght-
ing. A fumble recovery led to a Brad
Wiginton ﬁeld goal to cut the lead to
seven, and a blocked ﬁeld goal led to
a 26-yard touchdown pass from
Batcheller to receiver Wes Hardy to
tie the game at 17.

The fourth quarter would feature
15 of the most exciting minutes in
W&L football history. Bridgewater
made the most out oftheir first drive
of the quarter as Lutz would again take
it himself for a touchdown, this time
from 25 yards out, for a 24-17 lead. The
Generals responded with another
Wiginton ﬁeld goal to cut the lead to
four but a Bridgewater touchdown
pass from Lutz to Robert Ziegenfuss
apparently put the game out of reach
for W&L. W&L tacked on another
ﬁeld goal with 1:06 to play, but the
parents would have to pray for a re-
covered onside kick for the ‘second
straight year if their sons were to have

OT win

 
   

Photo by David Hanson/Assistant Photo Editor

STICK AND MOVE: Freshman Davis White eludes an onslaught of
Bridgewater defenders during Saturday’s overtime win.

any chance at beating the Eagles.
Prayer answered. Freshman
comerback Matt Conners would re-
cover the kick at the General 49 yard
line to give W&L a glimmer of hope.
This glimmer became a lot brighter
when Batcheller found senior receiver
J,T. Malatesta in the endzone for six,
and then hooked up with Malatesta
again for the game tying two-point
conversion. The game would be de-
cided in overtime for the first time in
W&L history.

Bridgewater cashed in on their ﬁrst
possession on a 2-yard touchdown
run by Davon Cruz, but the Generals
would respond on their ﬁrst play from
scrimmage in the extra frame on a 25-
yard strike from Batcheller to freshman
running back Chris Sullivan to send
the game into its second overtime pe-
riod.

Batcheller hit Malatesta in the
endzone once again to give W&L a
six-point lead, but a missedextrapoint
meant the Generals’ defense needed

to come up big. The Eagles were shut
down four straight plays, and W&L
hung on to its wildest victory, since
well, last parent’s weekend, 44-38.

The win was the Generals third
straight to even up their record at 4-4.
It also marked the second straight week
W&L came from behind, a trademark
that victimized them often earlier in the
year. Batcheller and Malatesta pro-
vided another chapter in their excel-
lent careers together. Batcheller went
24-44 for 309 yards and four touch-
downs. Malatesta amassed 122 of
those yards, and two of those touch-
downs, not to mention the crucial two-
point conversion. Junior linebacker Ja-
son Lipsey led the W&L defense with
an astounding 25 tackles.

The Generals look to climb above
the 500 mark for the ﬁrst time this sea-
son as they travel to Emory and Henry.
Heading into yesterdays contest the
Wasps were only one half game be-
hind the ODAC leaders. Catholic. Kick-
offis set for 1:00.

Mens’ soccer ups ODAC record

By Robert Turner

S TA FF WRITER

Washington and Lee’s mens' soc-
cer team had an up and down week.
gaining another ODAC victory
Wednesday at Bridgewater before fall-
ing to Salisbury State at home on Sat-
urday.

The Generals, led by two goals from
sophomore Andrew Grimes, kept their
ODAC winning streak alive Wednes-
day, defeating an overmatched
Bridgewater squad 4-2.

The game was a close contest for
awhile, as after Grimes scored his first
goal Bridgewater came back with two
goals of their own to take the lead.

Senior Jason Miller tied the game
with a goal in the 3 1st minute, and the
Generals went on to dominate the sec-
ond half.

Senior Matt Arnold scored midway
through the half before Grimes added
another gaol in the match’s final
minute.

“I can say that that goal was prob-
ably the best goal of my career given
the circumstances ofthe game,” said
Arnold.

The team returned home Saturday
for a non-conference game against
nationally ranked Salisbury State be-
fore a parents’ weekend crowd.

The Generals fought hard in their
regular season ﬁnale, but came upjust

a little short in their upset bid, losing
1-0.

The game’s only goal came from
Seagull Joe lskow in the 39th minute.
Both teams had numerous other
chance, but the defense for both teams
held strong.

The Generals’ best chance came in
the match’s closing minutes when se-
nior Ben Thompson slid a shot past
the Seagulls’ goalie that was deflected
out of the goal by another Salisbury
defender.

The Generals’ quest for the conference
title begins Tuesday, November 6 in the
ODAC tournament. Time and location are
still to be announced as the rest of the
conference wraps up regular season play.

* * Up.
Ski all season long for 599.

Think there's nothing to do during the week? Well, head to.-
Virginia’s Blue Ridge Mountains, where you'll find Wintergreen '
Resort. Wintergreen ollers a new quad lift and over 19 slopes and
trails. For both skiers and snowboarders, we also have one of the
region's best terrain parks with Virginia's only halt-pipe. And during
our 25th anniversary season, you can ski all you want for just $99,
with Wintergreen's Ski 'til you drop Season Pass.*

So, call us today at 1-804-325-8165 or visit us on the Web

at www.\NintergreenResort.com And get in on a deal
that’s simply too good to pass up.

*I\lol valid Sunday mornings, Saturdays or Holiday periods.

Up. Down.

VlRGlNlA
IS F
l0VEK$

‘Til next year

Women’s soccer ﬁnishes year

Looking ahead

VB ready for ODAC tourney

By Frances Groberg

SPORTS EDITOR

By Sarah Schmidt

STAFF WRITER

What a long trip it’s been for the Washington and Lee
women’s soccer team, who battled through injury after in-
jury to make it to the semiﬁnals of the ODAC tournament.
That trip was cut short on Friday as the 4th seeded Gener-
als suffered a tough 2-0 loss to 1st seed Lynchburg.

Lynchburg scored just 1 :50 into the game but the game
remained deadlocked at 1-0, thanks to the Generals’ de-
fense. But with 1:18 remaining in the second half
Lynchburg rocketed the insurance goal into W&L’s net.

“I think we were a little intimidated since we had lost to
Lynchburg once before,” junior Samantha Garbisch said.
Junior captain Shana Levine echoed Garbisch’s sentiments.
“They were fast, but if we had played better, we could have
won.”

Lynchburg outshot the Generals 17-5, and also led in
comer kicks, 10-0. Senior Stephanie McKnight and jun-
ior Lauren Harris combined for seven saves in goal for
the Generals.

The road to the semiﬁnals involved a win in the 1st
round over Virginia Wesleyan, 1-0 on Tuesday. Freshman
Ruth-Hill Yielding scored the winning goal off of a sideline
ﬂip throw by freshman Jenny Thomas. McKnight and Har-
ris combined for the shutout in goal.

“This year was deﬁnitely a character building season,”
Garbisch said. “We ended at a really high point, and if we
can start next year’s season where we left this one, we’ 11 do
very well.”

Head coach Jan I-Iathom agrees. Seniors Deirdre Coyle,
Ansley Miller, and Ginny Jernigan were all sidelined for
most of the season, leaving Stephanie McKnight the only
senior left on the ﬁeld. “What we’ll miss most ﬁom them is
the commitment they brought to the team. It was hard for
them to sit and watch when they wanted to play, but they
came nonetheless. It will have much more of an inﬂuence
on future teams than they will ever see with their own eyes.”

W&L volleyball took out two more ODAC oppo-
nents this week, upping the squad’s conference record
to 10-0 heading into the ODAC tournament this week-
end. The Generals, 19-6 overall and ranked fust in the
conference, easily handled Roanoke and Randolph-
Macon.

W&L went on the road to trounce Roanoke in three
games on Tuesday (15-5, 15-5, 15-6.) The team returned
to face Randolph-Macon iii a front of a home crowd of
supportive parents. The ladies didn’t let their folks
down, slaughtering the Yellow Jackets 15-0 in the fnst
game. The next two games were closer,l5-12 and 15-9,
but the Generals held on for their 23rd consecutive
regular season ODAC victory.

Leading the way was sophomore middle blocker
Lindsay Ruckert who ﬁred 12 kills and three blocks.
Senior outside hitter Nancy Reinhait ﬁnished her last
regular season contest with nine kills and 15 digs.
Sophomore outside hitter Lee Charbonet totaled eight
kills, ﬁve aces, and ﬁve digs. Contributing the most
assists was junior setter Katherine Kline with 18.

A ceremony honoring standout senior Nancy
Reinhart was held between the second and third games.
Reinhart holds seven different W&L volleyball records
in addition to her two ODAC records for most career
kills and digs. She was ODAC Player of the Year her
sophomore season and ﬁrst team all ODAC her junior
year. Reinhart’s parents were on hand to take part in
the ceremony.

Reinhart and her teammates will have a chance to
break more records as the squad heads to Hollins this
weekend for the ODAC tournament. W&L claims the
top seed in the tournament and a tournament champi-
onship will earn them a guaranteed berth in the na-
tional tournament.

Mens’ Basketball loses coach

By Heather M‘cDonald

STAFF WRITER

Head basketball and golf coach
Kevin Moore resigned from his posi-
tion on Oct. 26 to “explore other em-
ployment opportunities.” Former as-
sistant basketball coach Jeff Lafave
will be the interim coach for the up-
coming season.

Moore’s sudden resignation after
the basketball season started came as
a surprise to the assistant coaches and
the team. Lafave said that the coaches
were briefed that day, about two hours
before practice.

“We didn’t have much notice,”
Lafave said. Director of Athletics Mike
Walsh said that Moore came to him
about two weeks before Moore re-
signed to discuss the situation.

“I was surprised, but he felt it was
something he wanted to do, and some-
thing he should to at this time,” Walsh
said. “My ﬁrst reaction when he told
me was ‘Geez, what are we going to
do?’”

According to Walsh, Moore said
that he felt it was a good time to resign
and it was better for himself and for
his family.

“Although the season is just start-
ing, I believe this move is right for my
family, the team and me at this time,”
Moore said in the Oct. 26 news release.
“The team has a strong group of up-
perclassmen returning and some good
freshmen coming in. I wish them all
the best.”

Walsh said that Moore may have
been inﬂuenced by last year’s season.

The team was plagued by internal di-
vision, resulting in the loss of then-
junior Rich Peterson before the last
game. Peterson was a key starter in
the game, but quit after an argument
with the coaches.

Furthermore, in his four years at
W&L, Moore compiled a 21-77 record
for men’s basketball.

“A lack of success can take the fun
out of any work endeavor,” Walsh
said.

Walsh said that Moore had no job
lined up at the time ofhis resignation,
but felt it was a good time to search
the job market.

Lafave said that the team does look
promising this year, and that Moore’s
departure should not disrupt the sea-
son.

“lt’s not like we didn’t have any-
thing [for the season] worked out yet,”
Lafave said. “We are picking up and
moving forward.” He said that the team
has a great level of athleticism and a
lot of shooters from the perimeter. The
team’s only weakness, Lafave said, is
that there are only two players who
are 6’6 or taller, and will make rebound-
ing tough.

Lafave said he deﬁnitely will be
applying for the job of permanent head
coach once the athletic department
starts accepting applications after Jan.
1. '

“I’m excited about this season and
having it as an opportunity to stay and
test my coaching and organization
skills,” Lafave said.

The team is also optimistic about
this season, although Moore’s resig-

nation did cause a stir. Sophomore?
guard Quincy Springs said the team:
will miss Moore, but the team isn’ti

going to let this stop them.

“It was really emotional when '
[Moore] broke the news,” Springs said. 
“We have two capable and energetic i
coaches. They have big shoes to ﬁll, L

but they’re up to thejob.”

Springs added that with strong re- 
turning players and promising fresh- I
men, the team bonded only a few;

weeks into the season.

“It will be a productive year for the 
Generals, whether the win-loss column 

shows it or not,” Springs said.

Council Travel

Student Travel
from A to 2

(AL

      
    

London 130
Paris 178
Barcelona 21?
Amsterdam 196

From Washington C
each way based on a rt
purchase. Fares do not
include taxes, are
valid for departures

in November and are
subject to change.

Restrictions apply.

1-800-ZCOUNCIL

www.council.traveL.com

K|D’S DAY oUT

Sponsored by Women’s Lacrosse

Games, movies, and swimming for kids of all ages

Sunday, November 7, 12:30 p.m.-4p.m. in Doremas Gym
$10 for firstehild, $5 for each additional child

Queetiorie? Call Alieon Offeriburger at 465—8679

u..u.u.¢.u-q.uq..v.q-.--u~.-.-.vn-ar-.. .;

 

 

 

Clip: ﬂing-tum Iﬂhi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSl'I‘Y’S TlllRI)—F.-\\'()RI'I‘E WI:EI<I.v NEWSPAPER

VOLUME 102, No.12

Brain cells now A

outnumbered
by SUV’s at W&L

Neurons also outnumbered by Texans

By Buddy Cole

STAFF WRITER

He already has four, but senior Whit
Nelson wanted another SUV. “I like
‘em,” Nelson said. “I like ‘em cuz they
big.” Nelson, an anthropology major
with a staggering 1.4 GPA, currently
has nearly twice as many Sports Util-
ity Vehicles as he has brain cells.

Nelson is only part ofthe problem
at W&L; a problem which has grown
to epidemic proportions over the past
few years. For the first time in school
history, there are more SUV’s on cam-
pus than IQ points.

“I find this trend disturbing and
distressing,” President Elrod said, “If
for no other reason than because it’s
already hard enough to park in Lex-
ington without those P"**ing behe-
moths taking up space.”

This is the most shocking devel-
opment since earlier this year when it
was discovered that there are now

more Texans at W&L than brain cells.
“This is a sad day for W&L, but a great
day for barbecue.” Elrod noted at the
time.

How did W&L find itself in this sad
state? According to brain surgeon Dr.
Wes Collier, “A human brain may con-
tain up to 100 billion neurons. But re-
member that alcohol kills brain cells at
a remarkable rate. W&L is like an
Auschwitz for brain cells.”

It is estimated that between fresh-
man and senior year, the average W&L
student will alcoholically slaughter be-
tween 98-140 percent of their original
brain cells. How is it possible to kill
140%? “Remember that once people
lose 99% of their brain cells, their math
skills become somewhat diminished.”
Collier said.

Not everyone is quite so dumb, ob-
viously. Some philosophy professors
have the full 100 billion, while most
tenured History professors boast up
to twelve functioning brain cells. Then
there are others who throw off the

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

curve. Some people are so
mesmerizingly stupid thatjust being
around them will lower your IQ. These
people have negative brain cells, or
what is known as “programmer syn-
drome,” so-called because the first
group widely diagnosed with this dis-
order were television programmers.
According to the Student Health
Center, the current campus average is
4-5 brain cells per person. This means
that, with the advent of on-board com-
puters, most SUV’s are now smarter

W&L Swarthmoriﬁcation
process nears completion

Only Swarthmore provided the right combination of rig-

By Herman Menderchuck

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

Yesterday feminist scholar Diane Whyner-Lott was ap-
pointed the endowed chair of the newly-forrned Lesbian
Literary Studies department, marking another step in
W&L’s bid to become Swarthmore. If all goes according to
plan, W&L could be Swarthmore by the end ofthe term.

“This is exciting time for Washington and Gloria Steinem
University,” President Elrod said, reflecting the recent ofﬁ-
cial name change ofour school. (It was decided that being
named after a Confederate General, and two white males at
that, was simply too culturally insensitive).

The Swarthmoriﬁcation process began in earnest ear-
lier this year, and the administration struggled to ﬁnd the
right Northern school to model ourselves aﬂer. “At first
we looked into becoming Williams, Brown or even Sarah
Lawrence,” Dean of Students David Howison said. “But in
the end we decided that when W&L is finally dragged
kicking and screaming ten years behind the rest of academia,
Swarthmore is the way to go.”

ordus academics, feel-good liberal activism and forced di-
versity programs that met the exacting criteria the adminis-
tration was looking for.

When the Swarthmorifrcation policies took affect on
campus, it was only a matter of weeks before Assistant
Dean Courtney Penn was giving talks on overcoming
“ableism, racism and heterophobia.” The next step was the
addition of the African Womyn’s Studies major, the Les-
bian Literary Studies Department, the Disabled Left-Handed
Indonesian-American Religious Studies Department and
the intercollegiate mah-j ong team.

Next week the sexist fraternity system will be abolished,
with houses either closed altogether or forced to go co-ed.
The final step of the Swarthmoriﬁcation program will be
tearing down the historic Colonnade and replacing it with
buildings that have that authentic “Swarthmore, Pennsyl-
vania charm.”

“Watch out Oberlin, Middlebury and NYU! Washing-
ton and Gloria Steinem is on the move, and we’re not

SEE ‘MORE SWARTHMORE’ ON PAGE 2

Wacky “littering” prank
Cadavers’ zaniest yet!

By Rod Torfulson

STAFF W IUTER

Those merry pranksters of W&L,
the Cadaver society, have struck a
blow for lunacy once again! Wednes-
day morning, the W&L campus awoke
to find that the madcap misﬁts ofthe

Cadavers had perpetrated another one
of their hilarious pranks on the Colon-
nade. This time thejovial jokesters. . .
getthis. . . LITTERED ALL OVERTI-IE
CAMPUS!

“When I walked to class Wednes-
day morning, I noticed that there was
trash all over the place,” said sopho-
more Rianna Jacobs. “I knew right

November 1, 1999
OPINION:

sodomy?

W&L1EE:

call up reserves.

SPORTS:
Who the hell cares?

LAST WORD:

@112 ﬂing-tum ilﬁhi

So just what’s so honorable about rape and

Sorority houses near completion: perverts

The same old tired nonsense.

PAGE 3

PAGE 5

PAGE 4

PAGE 6

away it had to be those wacky Cadav-
ers. I mean, littering all over campus
— who else could come up with some-
thing that creative?”

Upon closer inspection, the “trash”
turned out to be slips of paper with
the unforgettable insignia of this great
secret society upon it. Their symbol is
a dour looking skull with a large letter
“C” behind it - a “C” that doubtlessly
stands for all of the “crazy capers” the
cooky Cadavers have concocted over
the years. Among the hilarious pranks
the Cadavers have perpetrated include
a prank last September in which they
put their trash all over campus, one
last April when they littered on the
Colonnade, and their crowning glory
last February when they put slips of
paper in trees and bushes.

“Oh, we don’t mind the Cadavers’
good-natured prankery,” said head of
security Mike Young. “In fact, some-
times I envy the spirited scamps. What

» better way for young men to spend a

late night than walking around the Hill
in masks putting little slips ofpaper in
trees and bushes?”

Yes, W&L is lucky that the Krazy
Kadavers are here to keep us on our
toes. Who knows what amusing an-
tics these precocious princes of
pranksterism will dream up next?

 

plIoto)y Emily Barnes/Plioto Editor
Just one of the 14,437 gleaming SUV’s proudly owned by
Washington and Lee students.

than the Southerner driving them.

Many W&L professors report hav-
ing to dumb-down the academic load
to accommodate the new brainally—de—
prived student body. “I used to grade
students on their ability to write clearly,
prove a thesis and back-up their argu-
ments with textual evidence,” English
Professor Kary Smout said. “Now I
grade mainly on a student’s ability to
keep drool offtheir papers.”

Things are only likely to get worse,
with no beer shortage in sight and
GM’s recent unveiling of their 2000
“t‘IberSUV,” a vehicle that’s over three
city blocks long. Doubtlessly every
South Carolinan’s Christmas list will

SEE ‘SUV’ ON PAGE 2

IE‘

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1999

Honor Code broken
19,400 times during
Parents’ Weekend

By Al Miller

STAFF WRITER

The beer can collection was “his
roommates’.” He did “pretty well” on
his French midtenn. And why were
there what looked like puke stains
caked on his bed sheets? “I was really
sick last week.” These are just a few of
the 48 lies freshman Justin Hopkins
told his parents last weekend.

Freshman Dana Semanaro is no
stranger to lying éither. When dad
asked her ifthere were any new men
in her life, Dana told him that there was
one “really nice guy” she’d gone on
“a couple ofdates with.” But the four-
teen hook-ups and eight handjobs
Dana has dispensed to various
fratboys over the past two months
seemed to slip her mind, adding up to
twenty-four big lies ofomission.

EC President Jeff Cook estimates
that as many as 19,400 blatant, bald-
faced lies may have passed through
the lips of W&L students over Par-
ents’ weekend. “Unfortunately, few of
these lies are reported as the parents
aren’t about to turn their kids in and
flush 80 grand down the toilet." Cook
said. F urthermore, parents are psycho-
logically programmed to overlook ob-
vious lies. A happy lie about your
child is always easier than the gritty
truth about what a .waste your genes

have helped create.

According to Cook, the number of
lies told on campus usually remains
steadily between 2,000—3,000 during a
normal weekend. For instance, Junior
Thomas Ince estimates that he lied
“probably about 160 times,” while he‘
was trying to get freshman Lisa
Edwards to sleep with him. “I told her
how much I loved her and how I
wanted to make our relationship ‘more
special’ or some s**t like that.” Ince
said. “You know, the usual lies.”

But the number of honor violations
balloons over Parents’ Weekend. Ly-
ing isn’t the only honor violation that
goes on. Every time a student asks
mom for more “food money” that they
know full well is going for beer, they
are stealing.

The estimated 19,400 lies told in one
weekend is a stunning new record for
W&L. There will probably not be so
many lies told in such a short time until
the Republican Mock Convention.

No, Sparky, this page is
not real.

It was produced, edited
and directed by The Last
Word.

All quotes were entirely
fabricated —— please don’t
sue, President Elrod!

VTHE SOUTH RISES AGAIN. This first assault on Washington was abandoned after the troops ran low
on vital supplies like gunpowder and beer.

WHITE MEN IN SUITS INVADE CAMPUS! The shocking story on page 4.

I

 

