J‘

~(~...~—

Clliiz ﬂing-tum iﬂlii

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsrrY’S WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, JANUARY 10, 2000

 

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

THE BENEFITS OF SISTERHOOD: About half of the Chi Omega pledge class pose after they received their bids on Saturday, carnations in hand.

55?.
/2
- 2..
VOLUME 102, No.16
Frosh S r '
Rush 2000 goes off without a
glitch as Bid Day passes
By Max Smith
NEWSEDITOR
They came. They stood around with balloons. They
talked about their breaks. They sang. They danced.
They clapped. Some cried. Some cheered. Most were
just glad it was over come Saturday.
Sorority Rush came and went again last week. The
University Center was crowded with cookies, decora-
tions and 172 freshmen women last week.
“It ‘was a heck of an experience to meet a bunch of
people,” said freshman Laura Bruno, whojoined Kappa
Delta. “It was crazy when it was going on, but when it
was over it was fulfilling.”
Rush started Tuesday night with Philanthropy night,
in which participants made crafts for various charity
groups. Skit Night followed with the freshmen attend-
ing just four sororities. Sisterhood Night came on
Thursday, a night on which sororities show videos with
group pictures. Friday night, Preference Night, was
more serious since it featured official ceremonies as the
girls made their final choices. After narrowing down
their selections, it all ended on Saturday's Bid Day.
“I thought it would be a lot worse than it was be-
cause of horror stories I had heard from friends at other
schools,” Bruno said. “But nobody was mean here.”
“Most people had a positive rush experience,” Said
Rho Chi Hayley Hall. “It wasjust like any other year. It
ran smoothly and there were no rush violations.”
Panhellenic Rush Chairman Elizabeth Holleman re-
ported no problems as well.
“I had a lot of fun,” Holleman said. “I think a lot of
freshmen and sororities are very happy with the re-
sults.”
F 0 0 0
Greek organizations follow 10- Greek academic rankings
year trend of increasing GPAS Lpjji 40 3,374
_ 2. Lambda Chi 12 3.245
BxvMa>E< Smith 3. PiKa 33 3.241
EWS DITOR - -
4. Sigma Chi 45 3.237
The Hill won’t be putting W&L fraternities on “double 5' Phi Psi 40 3205
secret probation” for this year. Fraternities and sorori- 6- KA 28 3-167
ties posted some of the highest grades in school his— All Students 1,695 3.129
IOU’ f311t€FIT1- All fraternity men 552 3.123
pat‘t‘It’s ysetrfy inteoretstfingebeliauseagt most Schoois) the 7. SAE 48 3.114
em a m S ra mi y gr es are going wn, _
but W&L is different” said Dean of Students David 8' Slgma Nu 22 3’086
Howison. “Academics have significantly improved in 9- SPE 48 3-080
the last 10 years since the Fraternity Renaissance.” 10. Phi Delt 41 3.076
Fiji recorded the hig1he§t3average oftany Greek orga- 11_ Chi psi 34 3_063
nization on campus wit a . 74, a signi icant turnaround 947 041
from their 1 1th place ﬁnish in Winter Term 1997. Sources  m,en P , K 48 021
said Fiji’s finish was only the second time a fraternity ' (he) 1_“ _ap '
finished in front ofa sorority. The big finish came unex- P1 Pl“ 37 3-021
pected for the FIJI brothers themselves. 14. Kappa Sig I 45 3.008
“We’re pretty surprised. We’ve always done well, 15_ Beta 32 2_981
but a bunch of guys did really well this semester,” said N _f - 391 2 925
FIJI junior Andrew Simmons. “It’s not like we sit to- on ratermty men '
gether and study. We werejust Y2K-compliant.” 1. Pi Phi 68 3.331
Pi Beta Phi led the sororities with a 3.331, a post they 2. Kappa 76 3,296
also held winter term. Non-sorority women had the low- 3. Chi O 79 3293
est grades among women at W&L with a 3.178. Non- 4 All . 399 3 290
fraternity men finished last among men with a 2.925. SAE ' soronty women °
shot up to seventh last term, posting a 3.114 average 5- KD 104 3-270
GPA after spending the last two years near the bottom 6. Theta 72 3.263
Ofthe TaI1kiHgS- . O 7. All women 748 3.240
h “Phase gn.itdes]t:re a s1t1r°ng,,r:Iﬂec.tl°n ogthls 8. Non-sorority women 349 3.178
sc oo 5 commi men 0 exce ence, owison sai . 9. All Students 1,695 3.129

takes highest fall term GPA W&L’S Qpen dggr 

Two W&L juniors explored the mysteries of the Far East
(and their discos) last semester while studying in Hong Kong

By Max Smith

NEWS EDITOR

Beijing. Tiannenmen Square.
The 50th Anniversary Celebration
ofCommuniSm in China. Fireworks
and military marches. Two W&L
guys. Huge portraits of Chairman
Mao. What doesn’t fit?

It doesn’t matter what you think.
W&Ljuniors John Fuller and John
Fidler caught a flight from Hong
Kong with some other exchange
students for a celebration where
you wouldn’t expect a bunch of
Yankees to be welcome.

“We weren’t worried, but we
were the only Americans we could
see,” said Fidler.

The two spent last term in Hong
Kong as part of an exchange pro-
gram with Chung Chi College, part
ofthe Chinese University of Hong
Kong. '

History professor Roger Jeans,
who has taught both students,
was impressed with their trip to
Beijing.

“I thought it was buccaneerish
in the extreme,” Jeans said. “It was
brave ofthem because there could

have been trouble with their po-
lice.”

The two hadn’t taken Chinese
before, but that waSn’t a problem
since most people in Hong Kong
speak English, especially at the
college. Fidler took business
classes, while Fuller Stuck with
Chinese history. Both took Chi-
nese as well. Hong Kong was
“faSt-paced and frenetic” for
Fidler.

Outside the classroom, Fuller

and Fidler took advantage oftheir,

Far East locale with several trips.
They went to the Philippines,
which Fidler said was “pretty Third
World” ever since several Ameri-
can military bases moved out.
They also travelled to Thailand,
where the people were relaxed and
cordial.

“Thailand was like the Carib-
bean, we stayed near the beach and
the food was great,” Fidler said.

The two also went to Macao, via
jetboat, an island next to Hong
Kong that was a Portuguese
colony. Fidler said the entire
economy is based on gambling and
is a seedier version ofLas Vegas.

But Beijing was one ofthe more
interesting destinations for the
two. Besides the celebration of
Communism, Fidler said Beijing
also has the best nightlife. They
went to two basketball areI~a—Sized
discos, with people dancing in
cages and pumping music.

“It was like Studio 54,” Fidler
said. “China is more Western than
you think. It’s less Communist and
socialist than just authoritative.”

Fidler said, if he had to do it all
over again, he’d stay for the whole
year. He wants to get an internship
in Hong Kong this year and possi-
bly live there for a few years‘ after
graduation.

Jeans said Fidler and Fuller’S ex-
perience is critical in getting a real
education. He said learning about
places and actually seeing them go
hand in hand. Being there breathes
life into the material you’ve studied.

“Travels like this are a real eye-
opener,” Jeans said. “It’s critical
for growth of personality. It’s a
great gift to get an intimate ac-
quaintance with another society
while gaining a new perspective on
your own society.”

photo by Emily Bes/Photo Editr

WAITING FOR GODOT OR_wiIAT?: Freshmen rushees looking at the pretty ceiling during one of

Rush’s slower moments.

OPINION:

W&LIFE:

Speakin’ easy

SPORTS:

LAST WORD:

Cilia King-tum iﬂlii
January 10, 2000

Selling out, or not?

Basketball’s second chances

Century of Cynicism

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

PAGE 6

PAGE 8

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
WRESTLING MANIA: W&L wrestling

won 2-3 at Quadrangular.

 

 

PAGE 2

(I111: itling-tum lﬂhi

NEWS

JANUARY 10, 2000

‘Z photo by hmily ﬂames/Photo l:.dl(0l'
- REGISTRATION Woes: Sophomore Todd

 Gosselink and frosh Connor Kirsch try and fix
}their schedules in add/drop week.

E-mail General Notes to 

 

Student managers sought

“JAVA at the GHQ”, a new campus coffee house, is
seeking two student managers to help plan and run the
coffeehouse weekly on Wednesday evenings, beginning
Jan. 19th. Work hours will be approximately 8:30 p.m. to
1:30 a.m each Wednesday evening. Duties include: over-
all responsibility for beverage operation, cash handling,
clean up and securing the GHQ at the conclusion of events.
There is also the opportunity to assist in planning enter-
tainment, menu, special events and promotions to meet
student interests. Stipend is $50.00 per evening for each
manager. Inquiries should be directed to Mr. Lynn at the
GHQ (x8578, jlynn@wlu.edu) no later than Jan. 12.

University-Shenandoah Symphony

takes ﬂight

The legend of the Zhar-Ptitsa, the magical bird with
wings of gold, will be told in music when the Washington
and Lee University-Shenandoah Symphony Orchestra
presents a concert on Saturday, Jan. 15 in the Lenfest
Center for the Performing Arts at 8 p.m. The concert is free
and open to the public.

Under the direction of W&L Associate Professor of
Music Barry Kohnan, the USSO will perform Stravinsky's
Ballet, The Firebird, one of the most famous compositions
of the 20th century. The music follows the Russian tale of
Prince Ivan who goes hunting and encounters a fabulous
bird with plumage of ﬁre, plucking golden fruit from a

£¢«§¢&ss(4_6

Come and write for

@112 ﬂing-tum iﬂhi

Join in the fun, laughter, and behind-the-scenes
excitement of W&L’s oldest and‘ most prestigious
newspaper

email us at phi@wlu.edu or call 4060 and leave a message

  
 

 
 

Whmaq Atouaw

Mt Adams

Laura LeLqhBudu9e/22
Daha Boom
VVl12mdd>9tB<9ze%
St240i\anLaBrLqqs
Laura Bruno
’~DaLqeBn4amb
Gui Cortzz
Stuart Crtqior
Bwrhe ’Dwtcaw

  

Mara» at 7
tiwﬁetta
 - ®hdqi Class

appa Data

96

law Eaqiut
Ea-czotowt 1-“arm:/i
Alia Giddtnqs
2960» Graham
Brodie G’Y€q®f|,f
Alibsow Gtwwaid
Caitteruw -l-iemscw
Mist/zih Law
414 Luitxlcww
Awe Lotz
lifts ¢>s€€'u1a

4—

 

Ci\rLstuai>r‘u1qt\om
A»waEand
<iiCvbiQw7es
VV\,eqawELqdow
Lawra E96606
LeattQo6erb
Eizatatt Selma»
Ccvblml Swath
Clam Swath

Liza Tucher

  

silver tree. In exchange for her freedom, she gives Ivan a
magic feather which will protect him.

Originally composed as a ballet, The Firebird now
stands alone as a concert piece. The Firebird is played by
orchestras throughout the world and has had a profound
inﬂuence on performers, composers and audiences.

The concert will also include a performance of
Beethoven's great C minor Piano Concerto by Shuko
Watanabe, adjunct professor of music at W&L and artis-
tic advisor for Eurydice, a community chamber Orchestra
in Roanoke. Hayley Hall, a senior music major, will per-
form Concertino for Clarinet and Strings based on violin
sonatas written by the Italian Baroque composer, Giuseppe
Tartini and arranged for clarinet and string orchestra by
British composer, Gordon Jacob.

The USSO is comprised of talented University students,
local residents and area professional musicians. Local ama-
teur musicians are encouraged to join. For more informa-
tion, call (540) 463-8856.

Film Society presents Central Station

The next presentation from the Washington and Lee
Film Society will be Central Station (Brazil, 1998), directed
by Walter Salles.

Screenings will be at 7:30 p.m. on Friday and Saturday,
Jan. 14 and 15, in the Troubadour Cinema, at the comer of
Main and Henry Streets. As always, there is no charge for
admission, but contributions are welcome. This ﬁlm is in
Portuguese, with English subtitles.

Central Station, an extraordinarily beautiful and pow-
erful ﬁlm, tells the story of a cynical woman in late middle-
age who ﬁnds herself reluctantly undertaking a journey
with a small boy who has just lost his mother. The ﬁlm
takes us from the harshness of Rio to the stark landscapes
of the inland Sertao.

The ﬁlm has won awards throughout the world, includ-
ing the Golden Globe for Best Foreign Language Film, the
best ﬁlm award at the Berlin Film Festival, and two Oscar
nominations-Best Foreign Film and Best Actress for
Fernanda Montenegro, Brazil's most respected actress.

Tanya Melich to visit W&L

Tanya Melich, a political management and public policy
consultant with broad experience in elections and poli-
tics, women's issues and the media, will visit Washington
and Lee University during the week of Jan. 17. Melich's
visit is sponsored by the Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fel-
low program.

Melich will deliver her keynote public lecture on Thurs-
day, Jan. 20 at 7 p.m. in_ Leybum Library's Northen Audi-
torium. The lecture is titled, “Maintaining Our Balance:
19th Century Civics in a 21st Century World.” She will
also talk to a joint meeting of the Young Republicans and
Young Democrats on Tuesday, Jan. 18 at 7 p.m. (location
to be announced). On Wednesday, Jan. 19 she will talk in
the commerce school's women@work series.

Melich has operated her own consulting business, P0-
litical Issues Management, since 1983. Prior to that she

was a public policy analyst for CBS corporate manage-
ment and director of civic affairs for the CBS Corporate
Affairs Department. She has also served as national elec-
tion research director for ABC News, a newspaper reporter
for The Salt Lake Tribune and on the the Foreign Policy
Institute’s editorial staff.

Melich, whose op-ed pieces have appeared in The New
York Times, The Washington Post and USA Today among
other publications, earned her master's degree in public
law and government from Columbia University and gradu-
ated cum laude with general and departmental honors in
political science from the University of Colorado, where
she was elected into Phi Beta Kappa.

The Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fellows program brings
leaders in their ﬁelds to the campuses of small liberal arts
colleges for a week of classes, informal discussions with
students and faculty and career counseling. The Woodrow
Wilson National Fellowship Foundation has developed
and conducted programs in higher education since 1945
and more than 200 colleges have participated in the Visit-
ing Fellows program since 1973.

W&L receives grant from VFH

~ Washington and Lee University, in cooperation with
the Rockbridge Area Conservation Council, has received
a grant from the Virginia Foundation for the Humanities
and Public Policy. The grant will support a lecture series
and community forum on the topic of "Growth and Con-
servation: Lessons from the Humanities."

"Our objective is to help the local community better
understand the challenges of reconciling growth and de-
velopment with preservation of the local environment,"
said Ken Ruscio, associate professor of politics at W&L
and chair of the committee overseeing the school's envi-
ronmental studies program. "Lexington, Buena Vista and
Rockbridge County are located in an area of incredible
natural beauty. Like many small communities, we face the
challenge of promoting economic growth while maintain-
ing the natural features which are so much a part of the
character of the community."

The program will bring in four of the leading environ-
mental humanities scholars in the country to lecture on
general issues based on their research that would apply
to the local region. The lecturers include Wiliam Cronon,
professor of history, geography and environmental stud-
ies at the University of Wisconsin; Phil Terrie, professor
of English and chair of the American Culture Studies De-
partment at Bowling Green State University; Brian Norton,
professor of public policy at the Georgia Institute of Tech-
nology; and Randall Arendt, _vice president of the The
Natural Lands~Trust in Pennsylvania.

Following the lecture series, a community forum will be
convened with citizens and local ofﬁcials. The general
approach to the forum will be to have a moderated open
discussion on ways to incorporate some of the planning
concepts into local processes. The lectures will be held in
the fall of 2000 with the community forum scheduled for
January 2001.» ‘ ‘

Kelli Austin
Diane Averyt
Alyson Brice
Lauren Burrow
Ginna Duncan
Lindsey Duran
Olivia Eustis
Avery Flinn Gholston
Kathryn Glenn
Frances Goldsmith
Beth Gray

Tina Harbilas
Blair Huffman
Kristen Huntley
Jennifer Irvine

 

 

Congratulations to theKappa Alpha Theta
Pledge Class of 2000

Sarah Janowite
Rebecca Johns
Blake Jones
Stacey Kimmel
Katherine Kolle
Jane Ledlie
Kristen Mandaglio
Michelle Moore
Kate Muscalino
Nancy Rhinehart
Jenny Thomas
Jamie Watkins
Brandi Jane Wedgeworth
Cary Wellford
Jenny Wright

=&, .-..,

 

JANUARY 10, 2000

OP

@112 ‘ﬂing-mm 

IN ION

PAGE 3

Rush needs to get

rid of the

David Foley used to say on a little
known Canadian sketch comedy
show, “Evil, just pure evil.” Washing-
ton and Lee has its own version of
pure evil: sorority rush. With all the
clapping, music, screaming, and hell
the women at this school went
through in the last week it’s amazing
they are still alive.

There is nothing as painful as see-
ing my upperclass girl friends dragging
themselves to

politics

there would be a better way to do
things, but since they have been
doing it this way for a while I guess
we will give it the beneﬁt of the
doubt.

I think the thing I really hate is
all of the stupid last minute politics,
lies, arm twisting etc etc. etc. yada,
yada, yada. It’s like being stabbed in
the back -— again.

'I'hat’s how they get you. Kids
saying one thing,

class, hoarse
from singing the
same silly songs
over and over
and being
friendly and going through the whole

rigarnarole of women’s Rush. So take a

break girls, kick back, relax, drink a beer

and smile and mean it for the first time

in a week. You’ve sung and clapped

yourselves out, and need to get back in

the swing of things. A brief aside: to

those great girls who decided to wake

up the guys on my hall Sunday mom-

in g, your actions were duly noted and

will receive retribution in full. Next

weekend. It’s called tear night girls,

and it’s a lot more fun and destruc-

tive than your little songs at 8:30 in

the morning.

Which brings me to my next topic,
men’s Rush. It is also a miserable
time, but for a different reason. Af-
ter I2-plus weeks ofgetting to know
people and having to entertain and
doing that whole fratastic Rush
thing, the guys at this school are
tired of it.

The difference between men’s and
women’s Rush is sort of a pick-your-
poison, die by the sword or die by Chi-
nese water torture. The girls get it hard
and fast, slammed for one straight week,
wearing them all out. Us guys prefer it
slow and easy over a twelve-week pe-
riod. Like a tantric position or some-
thing.

Either way the whole Rush process
is really not that pleasant; you’d think

.3“ or 0 &ldﬂ7d3§1
 Nlidiad Crittenden 01

going to another
house blah, blah,
blah. The annoy-
ances of bid ball,
where decisions
are made on the capricious whims
of frat guys —— there’s a reliable
group of decision makers. But what-
ever, pretty soon pledgeship will
begin for both men and women.
Girls, you have nothing to worry
about.

For the next eight weeks you will
be “hazed” repeatedly ‘with brown-
ies, giﬂs, free dinners, forced party-
ing and stuff like that. It’s painful re-
ally (note: extreme sarcasm). The tor-
ture, the pain, suffering. For guys,
look on the bright side, you have eight
“fun” weeks ahead of you learning
about ﬁatemal ideals, brotherhood,
service, and morality, oh yeah, and
some blood, sweat and tears along the
way. Craig Yi! ! ! !! All of this explains
why winter term is the least favorite
term, as shown in a randomly selected
poll of one Ring-tum Phi editor.

Rush makes the parties closed.
Every fraternity is uppity and fratty.
Everything moves to off-campus
houses. Those freshmen guys just
aren’t smiling as much as they used
to. And to make things even worse,
it’s cold. So good luck with this, I
hope you have a great semester, but
Iihave’ decided to hibernate this
year in a small cave somewhere.
Wake me up when spring term gets
here.

///////////// / / //

“I

?7'f3<3‘?<>"<Z 

W&L greek system welcomes all students

“Sellout” was the first term I en-
countered when I told my friends from
home that I was rushing. Actually, I
remember three days before coming
back to Lexington I whined, “UGH, I
can’t believe I’m rushing in a few days,”
to which I was answered, “No rush!
You’re on vacation! You can relax.”

I had previously thought the
phrase, “You don’t understand” had
been reserved for parents. ButI found
myself saying it more than I would
have liked, to any New Yorker who
deemed the entire sorority/fratemity
scene as a sick manifestation of con-

“Frat guy” and “sorority chick”
were two phrases accompanied by
negative connotations back home.
Once anyone sighted W&L on the top

10 drinking schools in the nation list,
he instantly dismissed it as a meathead

school, a congregation of lushes who '

cared more about the quality of a can
of Natty Light or the color of their lip
gloss than any-
thing else.

group.
lt’s notjust W&L, but any word in
the English language has a corre-
sponding connotation. Although the
political correction movement has at-
tempted all
said subtexts,

The entire
Greek system at
W&L simply em-

 Noithernasfxposurve
V’ Kris Pollina ’03

Washington
and Lee dis-
pels stereo-

bodies the con-

cept of dispelling stereotypes. It seems
everything at this institution is accom-
panied by one, whether it is what ﬁ'ater-
nity/sorority you join, whether you join

. one at all, what your major is, or where

you’re from. However, the marvel of
these typecasts is that each one is
quickly dismissed with an examination
of the individuals composing each

types more
aggressively by simply welcoming
members of every walk of life into each
of their sub-institutions. At the risk of
sounding like Mr. Rogers, I don’t claim
to be a part of one, big, happy family
with no cliques. Rather, my contention
is that Washington and Lee will wholly
support such divisions in the student
body but with the assurance that it is

not a discriminating or biased group.

“Frat guy” is no longer synony-
mous with meathead, (not all the time
anyway), nor is a “sorority chick” a
Barbie clone who can’t chew gum and
walk at the same time. Though W&L
may acknowledge these stereotypes,
they in no way fulfill them. Even bet-
ter, they exercise the ability to have
such easily labeled groups, and work
against these labels successfully.

My non-W&L acquaintances will
never be able to understand the im-
portance of the Greek system, and will
forever continue to berate its conse-
quence and downplay its positive im-
plications while I continue to protest
that they “don’t understand.” Only a
W&L student can actually realize the
inaccuracy of such illusions and the
truth behind each group.

1,001 things that irritate me: Prissy dressers

  uote of the week:

1/

Let’s go through the freshmen
dorms and see all the girls

crying.

— Senior guy on
women’s bid day

)1

(J11: ﬂing-mm lﬂlii

Polly Doig

Max Smith
Stephanie Bianco
Michael Crittenden
Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin
Heather McDonald
Emily Barnes

Lisa Lin

Dave Hanson

Neal Willetts

Executive Editor
News Editor
Opinions Editor -
W&Life Editor
Sports Editor
Last Word Editor
Copy Editor
Photo Editor
Assistant Photo Editors

Layout Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Ofﬁce: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wIu.edu/-phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

The other day while strolling merrily along the Hill, the
most frightening thing happened. I looked up from curs-
ing my long walk to class (I live in that annoyingly conve-
nient location where I am too close to campus to ever be
allowed near it in a car and too far away
to not carry an umbrella with me when
I leave the house) to see a fellow fe-
male peer, and I was suddenly plunged
into a state of paranoia. I must have
forgotten it was Monday and I had forgotten about chapter
and I hadn’t dressed appropriately.

Of course it was not Monday, but I see you wondering
why I thought as much. Well, people. It was because this
lovely student was dressed as if she was on her way to a
cocktail party-— an ensemble I would only wear to the Hill
if I were about to give an impressive presentation on stock
analysis or. . . attend chapter. But this fair lady felt that
simply waking up this morning was reason enough to cel-
ebrate life and wear heels.

Now I know that we are a school of heavy drinkers but
that does not mean that we must dress as if we are attending
a 24-7 tailgate. I understand that dressing on the fancier side
of college-prep can be desirable at times, perhaps to perk up
your day, make you feel better about yourself, or maybe you
had spare time that morning. Yet the way some girls are dress-
ing can certainly not be accomplished in mere spare time
without the aid of a ﬂeet of maids and make-up artists. There
has to be a logical explanation as to why they are appearing
everyday (Monday or not) dressed like a Neirnan’s display.
Following several lines of reasoning I have come to some
conclusions and can offer advice bmed on my findings.

First, girls may dress this way for future practice in the
sense that they one day hope to be CEO of a Fortune 500

 Ungrateful Ninja
‘I ‘ Kay Harding ’01

_ company or a New York super mom who drives a Mercedes
pod SUV and leads their children around on leashes. This
explanation simple leaves me befuddled though because I
for one am putting off my entrance into the real world for
as long as possible. Why do you wear
out your $200 Kate Spade carrying
pens and calculators when you are
going to have it surgically attached

to your hip once you start paying for
things yourself. . . maybe.

Notice that I say ‘adult’ women. Since when are col-
lege-aged girls required to dress like they are attending
tea at the Ritz after their 3 o’clock class? Perhaps if you are

a New England socialite you are appropriately dressed.
But, let me be the one to mordantly inform you that the
Hamptons are rarely the site for fall fashion shows. The
images photographed in Town & Country are not exactly
cutting edge fashion trends. If you traded your Southern
Living for Marie Claire or Glamour you’d soon realize that

denim and downsizing is IN, people! Quick quiz . . have you

heard of Celine, Chaiken&Capone, Theory, or Katyone

Adeli? Are you aware that your St. John suit and pearl studs

are quickly becoming antiques making way for orange,

Osbeck pashirnas and pony-hair hair wraps and leather cuffs?
And all of this coming from someone whose uniform con-
sists of bootcut jeans and tee-shirts. So as adult and trendy
as you may think you are. . . you are not. That’s irritating.

Perhaps these gals are deliberately trying to dress as
something they are not in order to impress the male popu-
lation and expedite the search for a husband. Uh. . . girls,
you have failed because you could tell them it’s Guess or

Gucci and guys wouldn’t know the difference. These are

boys that roll out of bed, put on a tee-shirt, ﬂip-ﬂops and

khakis and hopefully engage in some minimal form of per-
sonal hygiene, and you’re hoping that they will take care in
noticing and applauding your decision to wear the DKNY
emblazoned sweater over the Club Monaco tank. Unless
you can ﬁgure out a way to wear cars, gadgets, sports
events, alcohol or if you succeed in making it legal to walk
around in only a thong, then W&L men couldn’t care less.
Sadly, your efforts are Iost- on the majority of the male stu-
dent population who (no offense guys) strike me as a bunch
of down-to-earth, casual, fun-loving frat boys with limited
ensemble choices and uncreative fashion senses.

And, from a more financial point of view, why waste the
time and money? Along with not impressing the bulk of
your peers, your money could be more charitably put to

use rather than spending it on Prada bags and JP Todd —

loafers; especially, when they are certain to be unappreci-
ated at best and ruined at worst by the fashionably conser-
vative Zollman family and the unaware remainder of the
guys. People, there is plenty of time to be trophy wives

later in life, why start now? More casual, comfortable cloth-
ing choices are more likely to be esteemed and envied (if
that appears to be the desired end) by the Generals as well
as the always-in-Vogue inhabitants of metro-Lex.

Now, I am not going to send you off with your tails
between you legs without offering some comforting last
words. I do admire the way you dress. I love clothes just as
much as the next girl (if not more so). However, you are
making those of us who choose partying over primping
feel as if we are starting a lap behind. We girls need to stick
together and remain on even keel. Can’t we all just dress on
the same level? And if not, and I have offended you, then
can you at least wear your Hypes when you come to beat
me up rather than those heavy, Robert Clergeries?

TALKbaCk...\Vhy did you come back from break?

‘‘I got sick of my parents.”
-Sarah Schandler ’02

“I missed Latitia Pate Evans and
her fine London Broil too much.”

after rush.”
-Tom Grove ’02

“I wanted to see the drunk girls

-Tom Meleson ’03

“I was threatened by little
green elves.”
-Roshni Nirody ’00

PAGE 4

W&

@112 itling-tum iﬂhi

IFE

 

JANUARY 10, 2000

Speaking out. . . student band is speaking easy

Seniors Matt Lamotte, Anthony Allen, and junior Matt
Herman ﬁnd their stride in the midst of W&L’s frat scene

By Heather McDonald

STAFF WRITER

“I can’t describe our sound. I haven’t heard of any
other bands that sound like we do,” saidjunior Matt Hennan,
about his band speakeasy.

Speakeasy may be unique in sound, but it’s also unique
in itself. Comprised of seniors Matt Lamotte on lead guitar
and vocals, and Anthony Allen on drums, and Hennan, on
bass and backup vocals, speakeasy is one of only a handful
of student bands on campus. The three formed the band
last year after the three jammed
together a few times and decided
W&L needed a band.

“If there had to be a W&L
band, we ﬁgured it might as well
be us,” Lamotte said. “[When we
started playing together], it
turned out that our performing
and song writing sensibilities
were similar. The essence of our
music seemed to lie in the same
vein.”

In Jan. 1999, speakeasy played
their first venue at a private party
at Hollister Hovey’s house.
Herman said that this party was
memorable not only because that
was their first gig, but for the
night’s chaos.

“We got to the house early to
set up the equipment in the base-

However, things took a more chaotic turn later into the
evening.

“Out of nowhere, there were police cars and a ﬁre en-
gine outside of the house,” Herman said. “Hollister
ﬂipped, because she thought she was going to be ar-
rested for a noise violation or for having too many people
in the house.”

But, as Hovey and the hand later found out, the police
and ﬁre engine had nothing to do with the party. There
was a gas leak across the street.

The night went off without any more glitches, and the

    

ment, where we were supposed
to play. But the night before, it

had rained hard, and the base— Conslgnment
ment flooded,” Herman said. Dr°P'°ff
“Everyone had mops and shov- January 13
els, trying to get the water out. 5-7 pm

We were really concerned about
the electrical equipment being on
the wet ﬂoor, so we decided to

Fairfax Lounge
Refreshments

 

move the stuff upstairs into this
little living room. It rocked, but
we were so loud that stuff started
falling off the bookshelves.”

Formalocasualocareer SeparatesoJewelryoHandbags
All clothing should be clean and on hangers.

Bla_irAllen
Janet Carter
Teresa Eterno
Claire Green
Adrianna Hoo/e
Lee Kirren
Kim Krieden
Mary Carol Mazza
Hillary Montgomery

Pi Beta P/9 i

Congratulates tlie Pl ea’ge Class
Qf2000

Bec/ey Mosig
Emily Pace
jenny Parle
Katherine Pe/eman
Allison S/ian/2
Emily S/iearer
Latoya S/ierron
ll/larri Wright

oto by Emily Bames/Photo Editor I
Matt Herman (center) belts out a tune during a rehearsal with fellow
speakeasy bandmates Matt Lamotte (right) and Anthonv Allen (left).

3 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, VA 24450
540-464-1501

 

“We're more than just hot dogs; we also serve fresh bagels,
‘International Wrapps’and high protein smoothie.”

Mon. - Thurs. 8:00a.m. - 7:00p.m.
Fri. - 8:00a.m. - 9:00p.m.
Sat. - ll:00a.m. - 9:00p.m.

band went on to play other W&L venues. Their last per-
formance was at Sigma Nu, for the fratemity’s homecom-
ing events in October. The band drew a crowd of 50-75
people, not all of whom were brothers of Sigma Nu or
their dates. Speakeasy played a two 45-minute sets in-
cluding both covers and originals. Since their ﬁrst gig at
Hovey’s house, speakeasy has definitely gained a more
mature performing style.

Lamotte’s vocals were at times drowned out by in-
tense walls of sound created by the intricate melodies
and harmonies of his own guitar and also Herman’s bass
playing. However, the overall performance was well—re—
ceived; the crowd went absolutely wild when the band
finished the night with a raucous cover of Brittany Spears’
“Hit me baby (one more time).”

Coming up for speakeasy is a gig at Chi Psi’s Tear
Night activities this coming Saturday.

While they would not define themselves as purely a
cover band, speakeasy covers a wide variety of songs.

Band favorites are “Summer in the City” and “Sultans of

Swing,” and they are currently working on a cover of “Lon-
don Calling,” originally done by the Clash. Yet the band
spends the majority of their time working on original music.

“Covers are fun, but there are things beside frat rock I’d
like to devote myself to,” Lamotte said. “What I strive for as
a songwriter is pseudo-sophisticated rock with a lot of em-
phasis on rhythmic and harmonic dynamics.”

The band members get together three times a week to
work on original song lyrics and music, and to practice both
their originals and covers. It was at a song writing session in
the beginning of the band that they decided on the name
speakeasy. Herman explained that former band member se-
nior Greg Nouza thought of the name speakeasy, which beat
out the other contender, Planet Roz.

While the band wouldn’t speculate on their future to-
gether, Lamotte did say that the band is continually making
progress toward better things.

“Things keep getting better,” Lamotte said. “Our sound
keeps changing. And, well sometimes we get it and some-

times we stop and take a smoke break.”

   events...

 
   

Monday, Jan. 10 ,
’7:3_0fp.m. Lecture. “Russia En: Route to Democracy,”
9 Sergei N. Khrushchev, sori of the late Soviet
leader Nikita Khrushchev. Reception to follow.

Tuesday, Jan. 11 I
_ 4:30 p.m. Add/Drop ends.
7:00 p.m. Basketball (W).~W&L vs. Emory and
5 Henry. Warner Center.

Wednesday, Jan. 12 ,
7:00  Basketball (M). W&L vs. Lynchburg
College. Warner Center. if

I , 10:00 p.m. Speakeasy, Chi Psi.

7:00 p.m. Inaugural Professorship Lecture. “House
Republicans: Learning to Govern?” William
F. Connelly, John Boardrnan Professor. Northen
' Auditorium. 0

Friday, Jan. 14
4 :00 p.m. Swimming (M&W). W&L vs. Buffalo
State College. Twombly Pool.
A 7:30 p.m. Film Society. “Central Station” (Brazil,
1998),directed by Walter Salles. Troubadour.

Saturday, Jan. 15 9 ‘ “

2:00 p.m. Basketball W&L VS. Guilford Col
lege. Warner Center.

7:30 p.m. Film Society. “Central Station” (Brazil).
Troubadour. .

8:00 p.m. Orchestra Concert University Shenandoah
Symphony Orchestra with guest artist Shuko
Watanabe, piano. Keller Theatre, Lenfest.

10:00 p.m. Snackbar Jones, Kappa Sig.

* 10:00 p.m. Leggs, SPE ’
10:00 p.m. DJ party, Phi Psi.

10:00 p.m. Zoso, Phi Delt. .
10:00 p.m. The Convertibles, SAE

 

Joining a state delegation is the
ONLY Way to SEE the 2000
Republican Mock Convention

Alaska, Arkansas, California, Connecticut, District
of Columbia, Florida, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa,
Kansas, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan,
Minnesota, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada,
New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, North
Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania,
Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Washington, Wisconsin,
and Wyoming
All have spaces left on their delegations

This is your last chance to join a
delegation.

Monday, January 10 through
Friday, January 14
11:00 AM to 2:00 PM
In front of the Co-op
$20 — check, cash, or charge it home

 

  
 

C

N ongratulationsl

:  M  - '

   
  

   

Pledge Class

”‘\.

 

 

Noelle Baer Laurel Bowron Ashley Brim Emily Brockway Lisette Casagrande Erin Carter
Colleen Bryan Austin Calhoun Natalie Cuicchi Betsey Ely Jennifer Fallon Juliann Garrett
Allison Glover Lindsey Harrington Liz Heatwole Sallie Higgins Kat Hill Anne Bailey Lynn

Jen Nelson Emery Ordemann Robin Okin Anne Ritchey Rachel Ross Kelly Schlichter

Reanna Stahl Sarah Sturtz Kelly Sugarman Emma Thomas Liz Townsend Courtney Warner

Carol Wang Anne Whitham

?€’  00 000 2000

gym C  ﬂimée (S200/M %m0e0 L9Qa000b00
  893000 (@000/00¢ L9/6‘a&%07zM/00 8@ﬂwm
Wemm  A   Lgoga/0207,?‘ Q&,(ﬂz(0Ic/0
C/gﬂ ggzm gggm @040 L975/EMA (37760/;(mm 7%/‘Z000
jzm  e%0r0<a Lf@0/20/4002 Q???/@ ¢(}000‘0m/
99¢/56 £4-Mm 90040 $090040; @004 £600 @000?

@% Lgzmmmm %’01106ﬁ70{v2/ .@“(?a’e77

 

 

PAGE 6

SP6 RT s

JANUARY 10, 2000

Men’s basketball grabs OT win

By Mike Weil

STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee Generals’ Men’s Basket-
ball team countered a four game losing streak to start
the season by winning four out of their next ﬁve games,
the latest coming in a thrilling 75-74 overtime victory
Sunday vs. Greensboro.

The Generals led 51-43 with 10 minutes to go, but
Greensboro would make a run to tie the game at 66 with
ﬁve seconds to go.

However, the Pride would commit a brainless foul
and send W&L’s best free-throw shooter, Brian
Ricketts, to the line to shoot two. Ricketts missed them
both, and the game went into overtime.

Chad Braley nailed a quick three in the extra frame to
give the Generals a 69-66 lead, but Greensboro would
again respond to tie the game at 69.

The Pride would not see another lead aﬁer that how-
ever, as W&L went on a late run and held on for the
one point victory.

“Lafave was good in the huddle. He helped us stay
concentrated as we went into OT. We felt that we
needed to win this game especially after losing to
Roanoke,” said junior Will Ballard.

“We had to play better post defense in overtime and
keep the ball out of their hands,” said Ballard.

Senior Scott Hudson led W&L tallying 19 points
and 12 boards. Junior Will Ballard added a season-high
17 points and senior point guard Walt Plyler had a sea-
son-high seven assists.

The Generals are hoping to gain plenty of conﬁ-
dence going into later ODAC match-ups from the non-
conference win.‘

The win was a nice rebound from a horrific perfor-
mance vs. an excellent Roanoke squad the day before,

They’ll be

back for more
Women’s Basketball drops

close one to Roanoke, 61-59

By Robert Turner

STAFF WRITER

While most students took it easy over the last month,
Washington and Lee’s Women’s basketball team kept
busy continuing their successful season. The Generals
earned tow important ODAC victories over Virginia
Wesleyan and Hollins before dropping a heartbreaker
to Roanoke on Saturday.

On Jan. 2 the Generals took on the Blue Marlins of
Virginia Wesleyan and used an 18-4 run to close the
ﬁrst half en route to a 77-59 win.

In their first game back aﬁer the winter break, W&L
continued their solid inside-outside play, as sopho-
mores Megan Babst and Jessica Mentz both had double-
doubles. Babst scored 16 points and tallied 17 rebounds
while Mentz scored 24 points and 15 rebounds.

The Generals were able to put the game away at the
free throw line, going 22-25 (88%) from the charity stipe.

On Jan. 6 the team traveled to Hollins College and
came back with a dominant 85-40 victory to improve
their record to an impressive 6-2 overall and 4-l in the
conference.

Senior guard Ansley Miller paced the Generals with
a game high 20 point, going 6-7 from the three-point
line.

W&L again was great from the line, shooting 92% as
a team while coming only to shy of the school record
for points in a game.

Saturday the Generals returned to the Warner Cen-
ter for a tough game with arch rival Roanoke. W&L led

W&L 2-3 at home

By Steele Cooper

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee wrestling team competed in
their ﬁrst home contest at the W&L Quadrangular on Sat-
urday. The Generals came out on top in two of their three
matches, laying waste to Gettysburg 23-18 and Pensacola
Christian 23-21 . W&L dropped the contest against
Davidson 24-18 once the match had come down to the
lightweights.

Three wrestlers went 3-0 on the day for the Generals.
Senior 125 pounder Chad Casto won his Gettysburg match
on a technical fall, a match that was called aﬂer a ﬁﬁeen
point lead. Casto pinned his PC opponent and won his
Davidson match with a 7-2 decision.

Sophomore Ivan Zdanov pinned his Gettysburg oppo-
nent in 38 seconds and won the major decision over PC 9-
0. Zdanov pinned his oppononet from Davidson in 2:37.

Junior heavyweight John Sensing won his decision over
Gettysburg 3-0 and won over PC 8-1. Sensing won his
Davidson match on a forfeit.

The Generals experienced several shiﬂs in their lineup
both before and during the quadrangular meet. “Against
Davidson we matched up differently so we had several wres-
tlers switch classes. It was a very close match,” said Zdanov.

With the absence of freshman standout Levi McVey, jun-
ior Greg Valentine ﬁlled in at the 174 pound spot. Valeritine’s
brother sustained an ACL injury in an earlier practice and
freshman Erickson Davis took over the 184 pound spot. The
Generals are still coping with the absence of senior Alex
McManirnen due to an elbow injury.

The Generals next travel to the Swartlimore invitational
on Saturday.

in which the Generals were thrashed 90-59.

Roanoke senior point guard Paris Butler put on a
shooting clinic for the Generals drilling six three-point-
ers, tying a Roanoke record.

“Roanoke was a better team than we were that night.
Their good play combined with the fact that it wasn’t
our best night. Butler had a great game,” said freshman
Will Cotter.

W&L was led by sophomore Bob Bustamante with
16 points and freshman Scott Hetterman, who picked
up 10 points to go along with seven rebounds.

Over Christmas break, the Generals went on a nice
three-gamewinning streak beating Emory and Henry
67-53, Virginia Wesleyan 60-52, and Guilford 73-67.

“We gained lots of conﬁdence with that ﬁrst win
and that carried over to the other games,” said Cotter.

Hetterman led the Generals with 13 points in the
Emory and Henry victory, while Ricketts and Hudson
both posted double-doubles in the win vs. Virginia
Wesleyan. Bustamante highlighted the Guilford victory
with a career-high 20 points.

The Generals recent success has given them a re-
spectable 4-5 record, 3-3 in the ODAC. “Wejust con-
tinue to work hard and we really believe in our system,”
said Plyler. “It’s been nice to ﬁnally play at home, we’ve
been able to take care of business here.”

Although the Generals have shown signs of prom-
ise, they have been blown out by the top two teams in
the league, Hampden-Sydney and Roanoke. in order to
beat them, “We have to play the perfect game,” contin-
ued Plyler.

“We need to control the tempo and keep them in the
50s or 60s in order to have a chance. Otherwise, they

just have too much talent,” he said.

Washington and Lee continues its homestand
Wednesday at 7:00 p.m. vs. Lynchburg.

Photo by Emil Bames/Photo Editor
AiMiNc HIGH: Sophomore Carter Thomas gets
up for the jumper against Roanoke, but it was
not enough to overcome the tight 61-59 loss.

early, playing a very solid ﬁrst half, but the Maroon
came out hot after halftime and used a 40 point effort in
the second halfto gain a hard earned 61 -59 come from
behind victory.

The Generals were lead by Miller’s 16 points, who
became only the second woman in school history to
break the 1000 point mark with her frist basket.

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

WinE OPEN FOR THE THREE: Roanoke passes the ball in the face of Tousaint Crawford’s defense.

With 15 regular season games left on the Generals’
plate and Miller’s trend of impressive performances,
the record looks well within her reach.

“l’mjust relieved that [the 1000th point] was over so
we could get to just playing the game as a team. The
record was not something that 1 had been thinking about
until the team pointed it out to me earlier in the week. I
wanted to playjust as part ofthe team,” said Miller.

“l don’t feel that it’s that important. it is a great
acheivement but I’m more excited that we have such a
great team and a good chance to win the ODAC tourna-
ment,” said Miller. ‘

Babst recorded her sixth double-double of the sea-
son with l2 points and 16 boards, while Morton and
Mentz added 16 and 12 points, respectively.

Such efforts were not enough to overcome the Gen-
erals’ 27 turnovers though, and Roanoke escaped with
the victory.

The Generals faced some strong nerves against a
Roanoke team that they have never beaten.

“We didn’t play up to the best of our ability against
Roanoke. We have a mental block against Roanoke be-
cause of our history against them. We were intimidated
somewhat and it showed in the turnovers and our in-
ability to box out against them,” said Miller.

W&L will face the Maroons again during the regular
season and Miller and the Generals remain conﬁdent.

“We are looking forward to playing Roanoke at their
place. We are deﬁnetely competitive with them and we
showed that we are capable of scoring the win off of
them. We will also see them again in the ODAC touma-
ment. We can beat them two more times,” said Miller.

Despite the tough loss to Roanoke, the Generals’
season has been very successful and only looks to
improve.

This season a win in the ODAC tournament will en-
sure a bid to the NCAA tournament. W&L currently
holds a 6-3 overall record and are in good shape in the
ODAC with a 4-2 record.

The next step for the Generals in their exciting sea-
son is a home contest against Emory and Henry on
Tuesday. Tip-offis set for 7:00 p.m.

@ TOYOTA

Still strokin’

Men’s and women’s swimming
sweep Hartwick 42-39, 52-24

Washington and Lee hosted Hartwick College in a modi-
ﬁed dual relay swim meet on Saturday morning. The Gen-
erals upped their record to 6-2 by claiming a close 42-39
victory in the men's competition, while the W&L women's
squad rolled to a 52-24 win to improve their record to an
impressive 7-2.

The W&L women's squad claimed victories in eight of
the nine relays on the day.

W&L opened the meet with a win in the 300-yard but-
terﬂy relay (3 :21 .74), before claiming victories in the 300-
yard backstroke relay (3: 17.27), 300-yard breaststroke re-
lay (3:42.66), 800-yard freestyle relay (8:33 .05), 500-yard
freestyle relay (5:l 1.41), 200-yard medley relay (2:00.43),
200-yard free relay (1 148.47), and the 1200-yard free relay
(13:54.43).

Hartwick (2-4) claimed its lone victory in the 400-yard
medley relay (4:52.00).

On the men's side, the outcome of the meet was not
decided until the Generals claimed a win in the ﬁnal relay.

W&L (6-2) swam its way to wins in the 300-yard butter-
ﬂy relay (2249.48), 300-yard backstroke relay (2:58.0 1 ), 800-
yard freestyle relay (7138.67), 500-yard freestyle relay
(4230.54), 200-yard medley relay (1 :43. 10), 1200-yard free
relay (12:41 .78), and the 400-yard medley relay (3154.07).

Hartwick (4-2) notched wins in the 300-yard breaststroke
relay (3 :42.66), and the 200-yard free relay (1 248.47).

Both W&L squads will return to action when they host
Buffalo State on Friday, January 14 in the Cy Twombly
Pool. This will be the last home meet of the season for the
men’s and women’s squads. Following the contest against
Buffalo State both the Generals will embark on a series of
away meets on their way to the post season. Both the
men’s and women’s teams are 1-1 on the road. The meet
against Buffalo State is scheduled to begin at 2:00 pm.

—Courtesy of W&L Sports Information

 

.0.

credit hietory buy 0

   

thru Toyota Motor Credit helpe those with limited
r leaoe a new Echo or Celica. See dealer for details.

l,— ® TOYOTA real values. every day. -1 WWw_ Q 6-ttoyo-133 _COn/1

'EPA estimated 32/39 City/llwy automatic, 34/‘ll City/llwy manual. ‘Base MSRP excluding iransponaiion. lax, tags and regionally required equipment.

TOYOTA-1 O1

   MORE VALUE/LE55 MONEY
 INTRODUCING mm mew

  TOYOTA

Stari W $10,000 —— About $12,000 well

THEKE’5 AN ECHO OUT THERE! Great looke on the outeide, great room on the ineide.
Cruiee the highway at 40 Ml’G'...very thrifty. Power? Plenty! lt’e a 1.5 liter hi—tech
16 valve ADOCH engine with variable valve timing (new) that kicke out 105 horeepower

any time you want it. And beat of all, Echo etarte atjuet $9,995‘.

&-IO

CHO

equipped.

—l‘
W

 

© 1999 VarsityBooks.com Inc.

We realize we don't have to waste your time explaining the virtues ot the Internet. Let's just say that at VarsilyBool<s.com
we've made the most of it. Not only can you save up to 40% on your textbooks, but you'll also receive them in just one to

three business days. All on a Web site that's completely reliable and secure. What more do you need to know?

Savings oft distributors suggested price. Books delivered in no more than three business days. some restrictions apply. See site for details.

SAVE UP TO 40% ON TEXTBOOKS.

 

 

PAGE 8

Now 80%
recycled jokes!

LAST WORD

JANUARY 10, 2000

A brief look back at the Century of Cynicism,

_ By Kevin McManemin

SERVICES, DYNAMITE, SERVICES!

Look, I’m sorry. I really, really didn’t want to do this. I
know every single newspaper reporter, magazine colum-
nist, Internet blabbennouth, radio jock, television talking
head and telegraph blipper have been saturating all arms
and legs of the media with boring and pointless “a look
back at the century” stories for the last few weeks. Unfor-
tunately this week there’s about as much creativity ﬂow-
ing through my head as there is across a table reading of
“Third Rock from the Sun,” (i .e. NONE AT ALL) so let’s all
jump on the merry millenial bandwagon as we recount:

THE RISE AND FALL AND
FALL AND FALL OF CULTURE IN
THE 20TH CENTURY

POETRY

In the 20th century, poetry changed from a nearly-ten-
able art form into an unmitigated crapulescent disaster.
What’ s that, confused with that made-up word there? Then
you’re not going to have very much luck understanding
the world of modern poetry, my friend, a world where poor
grammar is de riguer, misspelling is au courant and the
only faux pas is writing something that makes the remotest
sense to any non-bullsh**ting English student.

So what happened? Well, at the beginning ofthis cen-
tury, poetry exhibited a feature that modern day scholars
refer to as “rhyming.” Although this has not been heard of
or used in poetry in the last 65 years, the basic theory
behind “rhyming” as the scholars understand it is that
some of the words in a poem would sound a lot like some
of the other words. Pretty wacky, huh? Some poems went
even further and added a “meter,” although this sounds
suspiciously like the metric system so we Americans
wouldn’t understand it anyway. Finally, most poems had
what scholars call “a point.” (For French scholars, a “raison
d’etre,” or for British scholars, “they jolly well weren’t just
a lot of bollocks about red wheelbarrows.”

In the ﬁrst half of the century, T.S. and ee and HD and
other initialed personages came along ‘and rejected all of
these rules of poetry with the giddyjoy of a three-year-old
using the word “poopyhead.” Sure, it was cool at the time,
but not anymore. The problem is that the poetry world
never got over that visceral, childish thrill of breaking the
rules and never realized that perhaps conventions like rhym-
ing and meter had built up over the centuries for a reason.
Just as it isn’t funny when grown adult Adam Sandler
says “poopyhead” in one of his movies, the nine-hun-
dred-and-ninety-millionth free verse breakup poem by some
bitter college co—ed really fails to pack any emotional or
intellectual punch and comes across as cloy, stupid, un-
original, pathetic, and yet at the same time hilarious be-
cause of the poet’s utter inability to recognize the irony
that surrounds their poetry, except for self-referentially
ironic poems which are so cliched in themselves that they

Degenera

criminal of the century
JOHN DILLINGER

Dillinger’s im-
portance as a crimi-
nal goes far be-
yond his relatively
minor crime spree
and the fairly small
body count (by
today’s standards)
he and his gang
racked up along the
way. John
Dillinger’s most im-
portant contribu-
tion to the ﬁeld of
crime was that he
romanticized the
life of a brutal thug
more than anyone
else.

Dillinger was the
first man to become
a major celebrity
solely for being a criminal, and modem-day celeb killers
from Dahmer to the Columbine kids owe a great debt of
gratitude to Dillinger for making murder media-friendly.

phony of the century
LOS ANGE L E S
COUNTY

This was the century of insincerity, the era of
hypocrisy, the age of phoniness. While no one per-
son can take credit for all of this, one magical place
certainly can: the Mecca of insincerity, Los Ange-
les County. In LA the smiles are fake, the breasts
are fake, the personalities are fake, and the only
thing that’s real are the occasional earthquakes and
mudslides.

Los Angeles isn’t even a real city! It gets its water sup-
ply from somewhere else, most of its population is trans-
planted from somewhere else, and it has no history or cul-
ture of its own — it only sucks the culture from everything
it comes in contact with, like the Hoover vacuum cleaner of
the world.

seize being really ironic and become, ironically, pathetic.

Yes, poetry today is a hollow cliche, like one of those
hollow guys in that poem by our old buddy T.S. And, with
the wholesale and fanatical unpopularity of modem po-
etry among mainstream society, it certainly looks as if this
“art form” is going out not with a bang, but with a pathetic
and hackneyed whimper.

VISUAL ART

The story of the visual arts (painting, sculpture, porno,
etc.) is the same as the story of poetry. At the beginning of
this century, most paintings pretty much looked like things,
such as people or objects or landscapes. Then Dali and
Dada and the Deconstructionists swarmed through and
shattered all the conventions, and conventions would never
be wrecked so completely again until ’68 in Chicago. Soon
art was just drawing something like a red circle on a blue
canvas, thereby making it suddenly worth more than ten
Lichtensteins (No, not paintings by Roy Lichtenstein — I
mean the country). At the other end of the spectrum from
such pared-down minimalist art is the so-called Vomit-art
of Jackson Pollack and his ilk, which kind of did look like
something, but not something you’d really want to immor-
talize on canvas.

Genius in modern art is about one percent inspiration
and 99 percent shock value. The only way an artist can
hope to be recognized by the media these days is by an-
gering some group of people with a really offensive piece
of art, and the only group left in our society that takes
anything seriously enough to be offended anymore are
Christians. So today we have scores of poseur Picassos
hurling dung at religious artifacts just as fast as the ani-
mals can sh** it out. If art is to survive into the next cen-
tury, painters are going to have to start spending more
time in the studio and less time at the zoo.

MUSIC

Quite literally every major musical movement to achieve
international prominence in the 20th century (jazz, blues,
rock n’roll, r&b, soul, disco, rap, hip—hop, electronica) was
invented entirely by African Americans, who were then
used and abused by the mostly white-owned record com-
panies. The once vibrant musical styles were all soon wa-
tered down and whitiﬁed for suburban American consump-
tion, all transformed from music into an insidious and vile
corporate commodity known only as “pop.”

Unfortunately, each of those musical styles eventually
did become rather popular, which means that artists in those
genres had the ability to touch and enrich a lot of people’s
lives. If there’s one thing we’ve learned from the poetry
and painting sections, it’s that nothing from the 20th cen-
tury is considered art if more than 0.5 percent of the popu-
lation appreciates it.

So let’s forget about real music and focus instead on
high-brow avant garde artistic music, or “the only 20th
century music white people came up with on their own.”
The biggest ﬁgures in modern white guy-music are Arnold
Schoenberg, LaMonte Young, Terry Riley, John Cage and

bastard of the century
RICHARD NIXON

No one has succeeded in giving a face to the word

“bastard” as well as Tricky Dick Nixon. The most impor— V

tant thing our nation learned from the famous White House
tapes was not that Nixon was a liar, or that he was a crimi-
nal, or even that he was a petty, narrow—minded politician;
the most impor-
tant thing we
leamed was that
he used the f-
word in daily con-
versation more
often than all of
the characters in
Resevoir Dogs
and Scarface
combined. For
not only drag-
ging the most
prestigious ofﬁce
in Am erica
through the
muck, but for do-
ing it with such
base crudity, Ri-
chard Nixon earns the title “bastard of the century.”

 

From low-life record company executives to pony—tailed
Hollywood producers, no spot on earth has more insincer-
ity per capita than Los Angeles. For unmatched excellence
in the ﬁelds of deception and chicanery, we bestow upon
Los Angeles County the coveted honor “phony of the
century.”

 

John Cale. (Not so much Cale, but he was in the Velvet
Underground which was woefully unpopular in their time,
easily below the 0.5 percent mark, making them artists.)
Schoenberg, who makes Sonic Youth sound like Hanson,
is the granddaddy of atolanism. If one of Schoenberg’s
tunes sounds pleasing to your ear, you’re probably play-
ing it wrong. Although you probably won’t hear much 12-
tone-serialism or minimalism on the radio these days, rest
assured that all of these men are really important artists.
How do we know? Because Europeans think so, and no
one walks the ﬁne line between erudition and pretention
better than Eurotrash.

THEATRE

What? Oh, you must mean. . .

MOVIES

At the beginning of this century, ﬁlm was still in its
early experimental phase, and the first motion-picture
shows were grainy, jumpy, out of focus, poorly edited and
sloppily directed —— indeed, it took an entire century to
reach the level of cinematic sophistication of “The Blair
Witch Project.” -

After the initial experimental phase, American cinema
went through what is widely known as “The Lame Phase.”
By law, every movie made from the late 20’s to the early
60’s featured geeky men who talked fast in irritating, na-
sally, high-pitched voices and female characters so sweetly
traditional they made the Virgin Mary look like a ﬁve-dollar
whore. About 80 percent of the movies made during this
period were musicals, a true tribute to the lameness (and/
or surfacing repressed gayness) of the times.

The only watchable movies from this period are foreign
films, and in response to increasing foreign competition at
the box oﬁice, Hollywood turned itself around in the l960’s.
It was in the mid-sixties that a true revolution happened as
directors discovered something that would set the tone of
American cinema for the rest of the century: the naked
female breast. To this day, only the pyrotechnic explosion
is a better determinant of box-office success than the na-
ked female breast. LONG LIVE HOLLYWOOD!

BOOKS

Literacy increased greatly during the century, in theory.
In practice, the most popular books out there are trashy
romance novels, featuring stimulating prose like “Gerard’s
manly bosom heaved as he tore at Gwyneth’s lace bras-
siere, like an untamed beast marauding its prey. They fell
passionately on the bed, warmly ensconced in the thick
satin sheets. Gwyneth gently caressed Gerard’s throbbing
masculine protrusion.”

In general, nobody except Oprah seems to care much
about books anymore. Today’s kids are even too lazy to
read Cliffs Notes, and ifthey have a book report they’ll
just get the book on tape or wait for the movie to come out.
As for serious literature, most critics cite the book of the
century as James Joyce’s “Ulysses,” which reads as if Joyce

tes of the century

pornogiapher of the century
LA R RY F LYN T

Although Heff may have been more important to the
field of pornography, unfortunately, he always had at least
a touch of class about him that keep him from netting this
honor. No, only Larry Flynt brought depravity to new lows
again and again,

and always with
a big smile on his
fat face. He wore
the moniker
“smut peddler”
with pride, and
for doing so de-

 

had just taken a normal book, thrown it in a blender, and
pasted together whatever came out. Most scholars now»
think that Joyce was probably only trying to make a whisky
sour when he accidently knocked a copy of “The
Dubliners” in the blender and came out with “Ulysses”
instead.

RADIO/TELEVISION/ INTERNET

The Internet is to our generation what television was to
our parents, and what radio was to our grandparents. In
other words, it’s an electronic time-wasting device that we
are fascinated with but which our parents will never appre-
ciate, and it’s a medium capable of enriching and educat-
ing the masses with top-quality art, but which is probably
at any given moment being used to transmit something
pretty damned stupid.

Radio took about 50 years to transform from a medium

_which provided entertainment from artists like Orson Welles

to a scarred battleground of morning zoo crews and vulgar
shockjocks. Television didn’t even make it ﬁve or 10 years
beyond its inception before being overwhelmed by a bar-
barous, soul-crushing institution known as “the sitcom.”
The great promise of the Internet, though, is that the choice
of programming is left up to the audience, and not some
sleazy program director. Today we are always only a mouse-
click’s-length away from a world of important information,
like why some uneducated white trash loner doesn’t like
jewish people. But the Internet is about more than giving
racists a place to reach impressionable youth: it’s also the
single most important development in the ﬁeld of pomog-
raphy since the money shot.

The Internet has the ability to bring people together
with people they’ve never wanted to meet in a way that
was unimaginable only decades ago. In the chatrooms of
the future, nerds will be talking to jocks, stoners will be
talking to nerds, goths will be talking to stoners, and
preppies, well, preppies will still probably only be talking
to themselves.

Will the Internet succeed in bringing people together
and ﬁnally freeing humanity from the conﬁnes of petty

'hatred? Who knows. But I’ll tell you this much. . . I can

imagine a day in the very near future in which a wizened
old Arab man and an Israeli rabbi log on to a chatroom late
one night and begin a conversation:

AbdulAziz: Hi room. Age/sex?

Menachem: 18/f here.

AbdulAziz: l7/f.

Menachem: Wanna cyber?

AbdulAziz: Got any girl/girl pics?

Menachem: Yeah, I’ ll send you some.

Signs...

vinyl lettering &
logos, etc. on
banners

metal

wood

glass

composite material

* Donelle M. D. Bowman
Graphic Arts & Illustration

Graphic Arts...

desktop publishing
logo design
brochures
advertisements
displays

props

sets

Illustration...
pencil

pen & ink
caricature
charcoal/ pastel
multi-media

(540) 464-3351 0 doneIIe@cfw.com

...a full service art studio
specializing in
”concept to completion” projects

 

ﬁ‘:;’r°:o:‘r: CLIENT REFERENCES - COMPLE PORTFOLIO AVAILABLE
of the century.” ‘A
 111:1‘ I
E 0
§ Putyour DIRTY LAUNDRY ,
§  in your DIRTY ‘AR and
SHOPPING CENTER Tow"!
Head north about 10 miles on Rte. 11 North to Fairfield to the area's NEWEST, CLEANEST
coin laundry and car wash facilities are on the left about a 1/4 mile past the Fairfield Texaco. ll
Open 7 days a week from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m.
°$eIf Service Laundry *
°$eIl‘ Service Qar Wash
'A"‘°"“‘ﬁ‘ c" Wm‘ war: as M m
...there's even a full menu restaurant "(closed Mondavs) P" ' ,

featuring your favorite foods and beverages.

   

Bamk£a.itcomiiig'rotuidtli¢bendl

 

