 

 

it

7‘

)8

L.

Ultra ﬂing-tum

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

 

VOLUME 102, No.11

Student body
plagued by ﬂu

Stress, midterms add up to health problems

By Max Smith

STAFF WRITER

Junior Rachel Bowes went to Chi-
cago for reading days and came back
with more than a few souvenirs.

“I feel a little stuffy,” Bowes said.
“It feels like the precursor to a cold. I
think I brought it back with me from
Chicago.”

Bowes is not alone on campus.
Several students have been suffering
from respiratory illnesses in the past
month, and exposure to viruses dur-
ing last week’s vacation may be an-
other factor contributing to their hold
at Washington and Lee.

Student Health Director Jane
Horton said her ofﬁce has seen plenty
of students.

“We’ve already had a busy start to
the year,” Horton said. “We’re seeing
more students with respiratory ill-
nesses, especially in the last two weeks
or so.”

Horton said the Student Health
Center had more than thirteen hundred
visits in September, when the monthly
average is 900. Horton said some of
those visits were simply to update
records, but the usual cycle of respi-
ratory illness has begun. Horton said
stress from midterm studies can con-
tribute to a lot of these illnesses.

“I wouldn’t say we have an epi-
demic on our hands,” Horton said,
“but we have a lot of sick people who
are pretty miserable.”

Geology professor Chris Connors
noticed the onset of illness in his lab
class Tuesday.

“I noticed some students cough-
ing and sneezing,” said Connors. “A
lot of students seemed to be con-
gested in class.”

Connors said despite his students’
symptoms, most are still coming to class.

Jefferson

By Heather McDonald

STA FF WRITER

Put the emergency room feeling of
urgency and dedication into a room full
of computers in Tucker Hall, and you’ ve
got University Computing when the
Jefferson server crashes.

A similar scenario played out
Wednesday afternoon in the control
room of University Computing. System
and Network Specialist Jeff Knudson
was describing the server problems
when the screen ﬁoze. Knudson irnme—
diately stopped talking, wheeled his
chair over to the computer, and franti-
cally tapped the keyboard a couple of
times. He picked up the phone, dialed
into phone mail, and updated the Server
Status hotline; he also paged all Univer-
sity Computing employees, alerting them

“I’m not sure if that’s good or bad,”
Connors said.

Indeed, life at Washington and Lee
may make students sick in the first
place. Balancing the “work hard, play
hard” philosophy leaves students
with plenty of responsibilities and time
constraints.

Horton said illness strikes students
more often when they are stressed
about academic work and don’t get
enough sleep. For that reason, stu-
dents usually fall ill in the time period
around midterm exams.

A lot of interaction with people at
parties and around campus can also
make students more susceptible to ill-
ness. This interaction exposes stu-
dents to viruses and bacteria carried
by their peers.

When students do get sick, they
can be more prone to other illnesses
as well.

“People getting sick and getting run
down may make them more suscep-
tible to the other bugs ﬂoating around,
not just one thing that’s going
around,” Horton said. “There are lots
of different varieties of these viruses.”

If you’re already sick, Horton rec-
ommends several actions to help you
get better faster and avoid other in-
fections. You must get adequate sleep,
at least seven to eight hours, every
night. Additionally, you should drink
plenty of non—caffeinated liquids like
fruit juices and take multivitamin
supplements to ensure the right nutri-

, ents for your body.

Horton said the two most impor-
tant steps for prevention are frequent
hand washing and avoiding primary
or second-hand tobacco smoke.

Hand washing removes any organ-
isms that you might have picked up
using the same phone and keyboards
as people already infected. Horton said

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

 

 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1999

Mock Con-cert
to be Keen

By Michael Crittenden

News EDITOR

great.”

quite a couple at the Habitat Barndance Friday.

MP3’s too much fun to be legal

some organisms can stay on hard, dry
surfaces for days. You want to pay
speciﬁ_g,,attenti_on to your hands be-
cause actions like rubbing your nose
or eyes are some of the most common
ways for those organisms to enter your
respiratory tract.

Primary and second-hand smoke
damages the cilia, tiny hairs that coat

SEE ‘FLU’ ON PAGE 2

still bafﬂes experts

of the situation. The system is even set
up so that when a system crashes, a mes-
sage is automatically sent to the pagers,
so if the system crashes after ofﬁce
hours, the situation can be remedied by
remote. At this point, however, all
Knudson could do was wait the six min-
utes it takes for the server to reboot and
reload.

The emergency had been taken care
of. Somewhere, in a not-so—distant com-
puter lab, someone’s paper could now
be printed out, and another student
could log in so he could check his e-
mail.

A few weeks ago, this situation
would have caused mass panic within
the student body because Jefferson
used to hold all of the student home di-
rectories. When Jefferson locked up, stu-
dents could not access their home drive.

Files were lost, programs wouldn’t run,
and the system simply wouldn’t work.

Over Reading Days, University Com-
puting transferred the student home di-
rectories onto the Lee server. The
Jefferson server is no longer used for
anything but printing queues and con-
trolling the desktops of computer labs.
This means that when the Jefferson
server crashes now, students are still
able to use the network, although the
lab printers will not work for a few min-
utes and students may have trouble log-
ging into the Novell account. The Lee
server has been running almost a week
and has not yet locked up at all.

Yet, adding to University
Computing’s worries, the Madison
server, which holds all the faculty direc-

SEE ‘J EEFERSON’ ON PAGE 2

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

HAVE YOU BEEN DRINKING? Officer F.W. Clarke administers a Breathalyzer test to participants of
the Controlled Drinking Experiment. Participants were cut off when their B.A.C. reached 0.1.

By Heather McDonald

STA FF WRITER

“I don’t think I know anyone who
doesn’t have any MP3s on their com-
puter.”

Washington and Lee sophomore
Brad Battista has over 900 MP3s on his
personal computer. Found on sites all
over the Internet, MP3s ﬁles of re-
corded music that can be downloaded
onto personal computers to make col-
lections of songs, much like an elec-
tronic mixed tape. These music ﬁles are
individual songs which take up about
three to ﬁve megabytes of space on
the computer. Some sites, like MP3.com,
provide users with legally recorded
MP3s, which are allowed to be distrib-
uted.

However, many MP3s are recorded
by private individuals, without permis-
sion from the musician or the recording
company, and those ﬁles are in viola-
tion of federal copyright law. The real
problem is when the MP3s that were
recorded without permission are dis-
tributed to a mass audience. Accord-
ing to the Digital Millennium Copyright
Act (DMCA), which President Bill
Clinton signed into law 1998, the net-
work provider is required to remove or
block the materials copied without per-
mission once the service provider has
been notiﬁed of the problem.

Despite the DCMA, people across
the nation gather and distribute MP3s
for entertainment. The trend is preva-
lent on college campuses because the
on-carnpus networks have the capac-
ity for high-speed ﬁle sharing.

‘‘It was the thing to do freshman year
because it was so new, it was so cool,”
Battista said.

Thedemand has made the problem
of MP3s spread faster than can be cur-
rently controlled. As Network and Sys-
tems Specialist John Knudson said, the
problem isn’t simply the MP3s.

“MP3s by nature are not bad. Not all
MP3s are illegal. However, this is a situ-
ation of technology getting ahead of
policy,” Knudson said. The University
Computing and Network Use Policy is
not explicit in regards to MP3s, it only
agrees to follow and enforce federal, state
and local laws concerning copyrights.

Recently a student had a large col-
lection of MP3s on the network, and
was giving out his IP address as an
FTP site. Users from all over the nation
were using this student’s site to down-
load MP3s. Certain recording compa-

photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor
“SK1P To M’LoU MY DARLIN’.” Seniors Ben Thompson and Katie Hudson make

 

Keen to follow.

nies found out about this, and sent let-
ters to University Computing asking for
the site to be shut down. Van
Assendelft shut down the site and
spoke to the student.

Many students simply share their
collections ofMP3s through their own
computer. However, this is not an ac-
tive distribution of the materials to a
mass audience. The real problem is
when students have distributed MP3s
through the Shared folder on K: drive
by setting up a folder and then upload-
ing their personal collections. Because
the ﬁles are uploaded anonymously,
there is no way to track down the stu-
dent who puts the MP3s in the Shared
folder. Twice last year the network
server actually crashed because some-
body ﬁlled the K: drive with MP3s.
More than one gigabyte of space was
used. This year, van Assendelft has
already deleted one-and-a-half
gigabytes ofMP3s off the K: drive. Fur-
thermore, this year’s frequent server
lock-ups cause even more concern.

“We are supersensitive to anything
that aggravates the network, seeing the
server situation lately,” van Assendelft
said. “Iwill delete them if Irun across
them in the Shared folder.”

While University Computing will
remove the ﬁles and talk with the stu-
dent if he or she can be found, the pun-
ishment for violating W&L’s Comput-
ing and Network policy is not outlined
within the policy.

“We have not aggressively gone
after students [who violated policy],”
van Assendelft said. “Generally after

Washington and Lee students have to ﬁnd their cow-
boy hats and blue jeans for the November 6th Robert
Earl Keen concert in the pavillion.

The concert, part ofthe festivities of Mock Conven-
tion Gala weekend, will feature the country singer from
Texas. According to SAB President Dave Levinson, the
group is sure the concert will sell out quickly when
tickets go on sale November 1.

“Without a doubt this show will sell out,” Levinson
said. “We wanted a band with wide student body ap-
peal, and I think we got one.”

Student reaction to the concert announcement has
been fairly positive. Freshman Van Taylor said he is
calling people from home to come to the show.

“I can’t think ofa better person to get for a show,”
Taylor said. “I have already called some friends who
are going to come up for the show. It’s going to be

Junior Etan Levine agreed with Taylor, saying he
hasn’t always been a Robert Earl Keen fan, but that it
“grows on you”.

“I hadn’t heard ofhim until I came to school here,”
Levine said. “My roommate is from Texas and he plays
it all the time, so I guess I havejust learned to like it.”

Tickets for the show go on sale November 1 in front
ofthe Co-op from 1 1-3, with student tickets costing $12
and for the general public $18. Levinson said students
shouldn’t wait until the last minute to get their tickets.

“We deﬁnitely encourage W&L students to buy their
tickets early, because there is no limit to the number of
tickets a person can buy,” Levinson said. “The inter-
est at W&L and in the local community should make
ticket sales brisk.” _

The concert will take place the Saturday of Mock
Convention Gala weekend. Doors will open at 8 p.m.
with an opening band starting at nine, and Robert Earl

we point out to somebody that they’re
breaking the rules, the problems stops.
A lot of times the student in question
didn’t know he was breaking a rule.”

However, if a student were to repeat-
edly violate network policy, after being
warned, Assendelft said that Univer-
sity Computing would suspend that
student’s network account. The student
would not be able to access anything
on the W&L network.

The punishment under federal law
is not as lenient in comparison. Last
spring, a University of Oregon student
was convicted on charges of illegally
distributing copyrighted material. A
fonner student set up a site on the Uni-

versity of Oregon computing network ’

making MP3s available for distribution.
State officials noticed an unusually
large amount of trafﬁc on the univer-
sity network. The student now faces
up to three years in prison and $250,000
in ﬁnes for breaking federal copyright
laws.

Despite the serious consequences,
students still question whether or not
the distribution of MP3s is really a
crime. Battista said that the situation
poses an interesting question: “Is an
MP3 more like stealing a CD from a store
or copying a tape from a friend?” While
he would not elaborate further, Battista
said that if it was like stealing from a
store, W&L’s Honor System would be
overwhelmed.

“The whole school would get kicked
out because most people would be
guilty of MP3 possession and distri-
bution,” Battista said.

October 25, 1999
OPINION:

W&LIFE:
All Hallows Eve

SPORTS:

LAST WORD:
The price of smoking

Elly: ﬁling-tum lﬂlri

Can’t squeeze the Leybum Charmin’

Football wins second straight

PAGE 3

PAGE 4
PAGE 5

PAGE 6

 

 

PAGE 2

 

F _ ' @112 iﬂing-tum ﬂirts

OCTOBER 25, 1999 '

‘FLU’ from page 1

the respiratory tract, to the point that they cannot move
the thin layer of mucus that traps foreign materials in the
air you breathe. So bacteria, viruses and pollen rest in your
lungs and increase your susceptibility to colds and aller-
gies.

Another preventive tool in your ﬁght against illness is
the ﬂu shot. Horton said ﬂu shots are the best way to pre-
vent inﬂuenza, a speciﬁc viral cause of respiratory illness.
The ﬂu tends to be more severe than the common cold and
infects people in outbreaks. Horton said the ﬂu usually ap-
pears on campus “anywhere from December to March.”

“Last year we saw quite a bit of [the ﬂu] right around
final exams of fall term in December,” Horton said. “A lot of
people were very miserable as they were trying to finish up
their work.”

Horton said ﬂu shots are about 85 percent effective in
preventing illness from the viral strains included in the
vaccine. Viral protection starts two weeks after the shot
and lasts six months. Flu shots are available 24 hours a day

‘JEFFERSON’ from page 1

in the Student Health Center for $5. Horton was quick to
point out that students shouldn’t dismiss the shot if people
around them are already getting sick.

“It’s never too late to take [the ﬂu shot] and ﬁght any
infection immediately.”

Contrary to popular belief, Horton said ﬂu shots don’t
give you the ﬂu in any form. Most people get only a sore
arm from the shot.

Remedies like ﬂu shots are coming too late for W&L
students like freshman Will Teichman. Teichman had an
unidentiﬁed respiratory illness several weeks ago and be-
gan taking antibiotics. When he started feeling better he
stopped taking the antibiotics and got a sinus infection
last week that hasn’t gone away. Teichman said his illness
has led to a stressful last couple of weeks, especially in his
academic life.

“It’s hard to function when you’re sick,” Teichman said.
“It puts a damper on your ability to concentrate. . . [when]
you can’t keep your head upright while you study.”

tories, has been locking up in a fashion similar to Jefferson’s.
Both the Madison and Jefferson servers are on old hardware,
yet the Lee server was bought new this summer when Univer-
sity Computing upgraded the network from three servers to
13 servers. The network that previously had a four gigabyte
capacity now has 90 gigabytes.

Until Reading Days, Lee was under-utilized. University
Computing dismantled the Jefferson and Lee sewers, trans-

ferred the directories and ﬁles from Jefferson to Lee, and then
rebuilt both servers.

While problem has been remedied through by making Lee
the main server, the problem has not been solved. Even
though the reduced work load on Jefferson, the system is still
locking up frequently and without warning.

“We don’t know where the problem is,” Knudson said.
“Consultants have been here many times, and they don’t
know. No one knows!”

University Computing does know the Jefferson server is
working harder than it should be, according to the server
statistics which are continually displayed. Jefferson was not
transferring ﬁles or saving ﬁles at the speed it should have
been when the student directories were on it.

Knudson said that one pattern that University Computing
has noticed is that Jefferson tends to lock up during the first
ten minutes of the hour. To further complicate the matter, when
Jefferson locks up, there is no disk or no keyboard activity
within the control room in Tucker Hall. Usually when a server
crashes, the problem is automatically recorded in one of the
logs, but Jefferson records no errors. No warnings or error
messages come up on the screens. The server just stops.

“We are literally the last ones to see it. There are no symp-

toms, no events, no clue to even start with, when Jefferson
locks up. If we aren’t looking at the screen (for the CPU which
runs Jefferson) when it locks up, then we ﬁnd out when some-
one calls us and says ‘hey, the server is down,’” Knudson
said.

“All of the people we’ve contacted have confirmed that
we are doing everything right,” Assistant Director of Com-
puting Ruth Floyd said. “It’s a very obscure problem. We

kept hoping for a quick answer. but there is none to be found.
They are looking at the right problems, but no one is really

providing answers right now.” Knudson added that Univer-
sity Computing has talked to both the hardware and software
engineers and writers in order to ﬁgure out what the glitch is,
but none of them have seen anything like this before. The last
step University Computing took was to record a half-gigabyte
electronic image of Jefferson when it crashed, and send it to
Novell, which is the company who makes the software the
server runs on. Novell will analyze the information and pro-
vide feedback in relation to the problems with Jefferson.

“Part of the problem is the increasing complexity of the
servers,” Knudson said. “The network tree is a distributed
database. This means that instead of one database, there’s
now nine smaller databases within the larger. We are con-
stantly adding stuff to the database — new groups, users,
workstations. The database is now more spread out, it’s big'-
ger and more complex and more powerful.” This kind of com-
plexity is needed to keep up with network needs and demand.
However, Knudson said this complexity leads University Com-
puting back to where they started with the Jefferson problem.

“It is not any one problem, and it’s no one easy piece to
fix,” Knudson said.

2/  Zfjasﬂzhy/on c3/ree/
7? cf/jox /490
Bexzby/on, U1'1y1'121'a 244.50

ﬁn/ere:/ed 1'12 1°ece1'01'12y an/are d120/ Qsprfzzy
iireaé upo/a/es 6y e—maz/.9 CSe120/ a message /0
7moe/ ‘J/némzzed a/.'
/1~aue/@1«ocA6z-zo/ge_.ze/

/540] 463—7l74
5‘ax.- (540) 463-7647

3 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, VA 24450
540-464-1501

 

“We ’re more than just hot dogs; we also serve fresh bagels,
‘International Wrapps’and high protein smoothie.”

Mon. - Thurs. 8:00a.m. - 7:00p.m.
Fri. - 8:00a.m. - 9:00p.m.
Sat. - 11:00a.m. - 9:00p.m.

E-mail General Notes to ‘_

 

W&L named to Templeton Honor Roll

Washington and Lee University has been recognized
for leadership in the ﬁeld of student character develop-
ment in The Templeton Guide: Colleges that Encourage
Character Development, a guidebook released nationwide
today. Washington and Lee is one of 100 colleges and
universities nationwide named to the Templeton Honor
Roll for its comprehensive commitment and programs that
inspire students to lead ethical and civic-minded lives.

Designed for students, parents and educators who be-
lieve that character matters, The Templeton Guide con-
tains proﬁles of 405 exemplary college programs in 10 cat-
egories. W&L's Honor System was proﬁled in the aca-
demic honesy category and the schools’ Shepherd Pov-
erty Program was proﬁled in the civic education category.

“Washington and Lee's strong commitment to charac-
ter development and the strength of its program make it a
model for other colleges and universities nationwide,” said
Arthur J. Schwartz, Ed.D., director of character develop-
ment programs at the John Templeton Foundation.

“Gods and Monsters” at Troubadour
The next presentation of the Washington and Lee Film ‘
Society will be the bittersweet “Gods and Monsters” (USA,
1998), directed by Bill Condon.
Screenings will be at 7:30 p.m. on Friday and Saturday,
Oct. 29 and 30, in the Troubadour Cinema, at the comer of

Main and Henry Streets. There is no charge for admission. ‘

“Gods and Monsters” is based on the novel “Father
of Frankenstein,” a speculation about the last days of
British ﬁlmmaker James Whale. The film combines the
events of Whale's ﬁnal days with ﬂashbacks to his Fran-

kenstein ﬁlms, his Hollywood heyday and more painful *

memories. Whale was gay in an era when such things
were kept quiet, and his sexual orientation frames his
personal and professional relationships. The ﬁlm won

the Oscar for best adapted screenplay. }

Career services receives Hecht’s gift
Washington and Lee University's career services de-

partment recently received a $2,500 donation from Hecht’s ;

and a matching contribution from The May Company, par-
ent company of Hechts for a total donation of $5,000. Judy '
Bamping, manager/executive recruiting and placement for
Hecht’s, made the announcement at a luncheon in Lexing-

ton earlier this month. 5-

Hecht’s recruited ﬁve W&L graduates last year and
has several senior alumni with the organization.

Photo by David Hansonl Staff Photographer
You ARE FEELING VERY SLEEPY: Sophomores Rick Schnatz and John Cimina show off their ballet
skills, after being hypnotized by Tom DeLuca.

AT TIAA-CREF,
LOW EXPENSES ARE
A HIGH PRIORITY.

All ﬁnancial companies charge
operating fees and expenses —
some more than others. Of course. the
lower the expenses you pay, the better.
That way, more of your money goes

where it should — toward building a

comfortable future.

As the largest retirement system in
the world,1 we have among the lowest
expenses in the insurance and mutual

fund industries.2

In fact, TIA/\—CREF's 0.35% average
fund expenses are a fraction of the
expense charges of comparable funds.3
It's one reason why Morningstar says,
“TIAA-CREF sets the standard in the

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.”

1 Based on $250 billion in assets under managemcni. 2 SI.ml.'m1& Pwrir [rm/nmrr I?.1li:gAnaIys-ls, l.999,'and Lippcr Analytical Services, Iiw . L:p;x-r-Dimmn '.4n.ily1milD.:1u [999
(quarterly). 3Mumings!ur V.—m'.me Annuilirs/[.ife, 6/30/1999. Or the 6.332 variable annuities tracked by Morningslar, mo average fund had um: Tu-5 Cnmbilllllg annual expoilws of 0 84%
plus an insurance expense of 1.26% TIAA-CREF expenses are \ubj(‘(‘l in change and are not guaraniccd for rho fuiurc Past p1:rfurrr\ai\LCi\ nu guarainim of fuiurc rcsulls TIAA CREF
individual and insiiiulinnzil Services dislribulos CREF ccriincams and inlorvcsis in lhc TIAA Real Esme Acmum. For more complete inforrnalion. including charges and |.‘)(pt‘l|sl.“S, (‘all
l 800 8422776. oxir.-nsiim 5509. for pmspcciuscs. Road ihv.-m carefully before you lV\V(‘§l or send rnoney.

ﬁnancial services industry. "

A focus on your future
Of course, expenses are only one factor
to consider when you make an invest-
ment decision. Morningstar also noted
our commitment to “consumer education,
service" and “solid investment perfor-
mance." Because that can make a differ-

ence in the long run. too.

At TIAA—CREF, we believe people
would like to spend more in retirement,
not on their retirement company. Today,
over two million people count on that
approach to help them build ﬁnancial

security. So can you.

To find out more — give us
a call or visit our website

1 800 842-2776
www.tiaa—cref.org

8/99

 

 

‘ CXHUBER25,l999

OFiN1oN  

PAGE3

Thankfully we have another date function coming up to
worry about getting a date to. The upcoming Mock Con-
vention Gala hearkens another round of Washington and
Lee students getting drunk the week before and randomly
asking someone who they are bound to have an awkward
time with. Maybe it’s just me, but past experience tells me
that a random hook-up, or asking a girl while you are trashed
is no way to guarantee a great time. This is not to say that
having a drink and asking someone isn’t all bad. Hell,
maybe a couple of beers in you will help you ask that girl
you really,
really like
and have
a crush on
(just don’t
let your
f r i e n d s
know who you like, because that’s how they get you).
But, as far as a random person for absolutely no reason
aside from ‘she’s hot’, is not a good idea.

What happens too often however, is that you ask
someone you think is hot that you know nothing about.
This is bad. It turns your date into a pressure-ﬁlled,
awkward situation where both parties are unsure where
they really stand with each other. This is no way to
have fun, and also leads to bad situations with people
misinterpreting signals and ruining any chance to cre-

 Backporch Balderdash

Michael Crittenden ’01

   

' ate a good friend‘ship/relationship.

Also, there are too many hassles involved in formal
functions: making sure you have the right clothes, orga-
nizing dinner plans, ironing out fraternity schedules for
cocktail parties, etc.; worrying about having to be a “good”
date shouldn’t have to be a concern. And this is always a
concern when going with that random girl.

_AVOid the meat market,
A taking a friend is more fun

For this reason, I suggest a simple solution to those
out there who are already worrying about having to go
to Chi Psi late night in order to find a date between
ﬂashes of the strobe light.

Just invite a friend. That’s right, just invite a friend. I
promise you, you will enjoy yourself a lot more. I know it
sounds like a wacky idea, but give me a chance to explain
myself. Your friends are people that you have a good time
with on a regular basis and that you enjoy the company of
(at least one would hope since you label them ‘friends’).

Friends are also more understanding when you acci-
dentally spill a drink on them, pass out at 8:30 and never
make it to the ball, or happen to disappear. Not to mention
a lot of the time they are happy if you meet someone and
decide maybe she is the person to spend most of your time
with that night.

Friends also have your best interests in mind most of the
time (unless, of course, they are trying to get you). Sure you
won’t be getting any booty and will be ﬂying solo late
night, but that is but a small price to pay. Twenty years
from now you won’t remember the random girl you took to
Mock Con Gala (of course you probably won’t remember
her the next day anyway). The people you will remember is
your friends and all of the good times you had together.

Instead of wasting your money and not having the best '

time possible because you invited a random person, just
invite a friend because they are the people that really mean
something in this world. I promise you that unless you
have a really good prospect or a steady date, you will
have a much better time with a friend.‘ It would also make
things a lot easier for the young ladies, our friends, who
may not get a date to the gala. Friends are important, so
make sure you remember that when thinking about who to
ask to Mock Con.

P%\l’\l:'.NTS
Lu ,

   

wn2i<tNt>

LETTERS To THE EDITOR

University needs to under-
stand homosexuality

Dear Editor,

As a W&L student I was often frustrated by the infuri-
ating regressiveness of a large part of the student body. It
was the sense that things were getting better that made
staying seem worthwhile. Jeff Cook’ election was a high
point, when a majority of students were willing to put aside
their personal preferences and vote for the candidate they
thought best. But as I hear of open and unacceptable at-
tacks on the EC President for entirely irrelevant issues, I
get angry, sad, and embarrassed. These stories *do"‘ get
around, and I am frequently unable to respond when people
ask me how I could have gone to a school so full of bigots.
When a student can base his campaign on a substantive
issue like “I’m not gay,” those situations become even
more awkward.

Everyone should remember that J eff has never made an
issue of his sexuality. He never hid it when running for
office, but recognized, correctly, that it was irrelevant. He
is the first to claim that he is not deﬁned by his sexuality,
and would never support special privileges for minorities
at W&L. He knows that it is not identity that matters, but
energy, commitment, and all the other qualities that make
good students and campus leaders. He has those quali-
ties, and many others as well. His extraordinary compo-
sure despite repeated insults may be the best evidence of
his exceptional character. That character, not his personal
life, which is now on display, is what makes him a great

@1112 ﬁling-tum iﬁlii

Executive Editor
Associate Editor
News Editor
Opinions Editor
W&Life Editors

Polly Doig
Hollister Hovey
Michael Crittenden
Stephanie Bianco
Ginger Phillips
Elianna Marziani
Frances Groberg
Steele Cooper
Kevin McManemin
Heather McDonald
Emily Barnes

Sports Editors

Last Word Editor
Copy Editor
Photo Editor

Assistant Photo Editor Lisa Lin
Online Editor Ali Soydan
Layout Editor Neal Willetts
Circulation Director Leo Brown

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@w[u.edu
http://wl11.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

student and a fine EC President. He, perhaps more than
any other student, is an absolute gentleman and should
not be subjected to infantile attacks.

At some point the university community — students,
faculty, administration and alumni — will have to con-
sciously decide what kind of future it wants for W&L. It
can actively address the issues it faces now, or follow
Hampden-Sydney example and do nothing. If it chooses
the latter, it will lose many exceptional talents like Jeff,
many of whom now take a look and then move on. In the
end it will bring disaster to the university. Yet that seems
to be what many of the students want. It’s inexplicable and
a shame.

Sincerely,

Kristoffer Neville ‘99

Good advice for Mr. Herbert

Dear Editor,

I have a slogan Mr. Herbert may want to use in his
campaign for E.C. President: “I Believe the Bible (when it
suits me)”.

Sincerely,

David Ross Cobb ’87

Student pleads for school to
take mercy, have double-ply

Dear Editor,

I am taking time away from studying for a test, because
something in the Leybum Library bothers me quite a bit. I
have known this for quite some time, but the times that I
am upset about it, I am also quite busy. Tonight, I have
had enough.

One-ply toilet paper. No home uses it, no bathroom is
comfortable with it, but whoever makes these types of
important decisions in our school has chosen to put us
through this torture. The times in which we really suffer
from this are nights we need to be comfortable. I think we
need to raise a fuss, and get this changed.

I do not want to make a big to-do about this, and I am
not trying to be overly funny either. I know that your
newspaper is not used to people voicing genuine con-
cerns. Normally it is a place for people to get on their soap-
box and build up their egos just a little bit more. I have two
reasons for using this forum: 1) I am not sure what author-
ity is in charge of this, and 2) If I was, I would feel like an
idiot making an appointment with some suit in his office to
discuss toilet paper. Of course, having everyone read this
doesn’t seem foolish at all. Thanks.

Sincerely,

Thomas C. Field ‘O1

Discriminatory alcohol

policy needs to be reviewed

Dear Editor,

I am writing to you today regarding the gross hypoc-
risy that engulfs the university’s alcohol policy. All as-
pects of it seem to be either contradictory or discrimina-
tory.

Page 73 of the university catalog states that “ funda-
mental principle of the Washington and Lee University
Policy on Alcohol is that students are adults who are per-
sonally responsible for conforming their behavior to state
and local laws and university policy.” The fact that resi-
dent assistants are on the loose to bust independent
sophomore males and sophomore females — Greek and
non-Greek alike — seems to completely contradict this
policy of personal responsibility.

Now, let’s move on to the discriminatory nature of this
misguided policy. It seems that the university completely
discriminates against sophomore females with regard to
this policy. Sophomore males are discriminated against if
they do not join the Greek band-wagon. For some reason,
the administration completely disregards these rules for
Greek organizations, but ruthlessly enforces them for all
other freshmen and sophomores. So, independent sopho-
more males and sophomore females are not allowed to
store alcohol in their rooms. Meanwhile, the university
completely ignores such practices partaken by their Greek
sophomore male counterparts —- is this a farce or what?
The argument that fraternities are not university hous-
ing is trivial since the university owns the vast major-
ity of fraternity houses and also since all sophomores
“are required to live in university housing.”

This evidence seems to prove that the existing uni-
versity alcohol policy is totally hideous in that it is
totally discriminatory and contradictory. Since a com-
pletely dry sophomore year is quite simply not going to
happen, why can’t Washington and Lee follow the same
policy of having no rules regarding alcohol in the dorms
as some other institutions — just like what is apparently
the case at some of my friends’ universities such as
Princeton. Alternatively, why can’t the university straight-
forwardly use its official policy of making students “per-
sonally responsible” for adhering to the rules as opposed
to having resident assistants taking this responsibility
away from them. Of course, only part of the sophomore
year seems to not be trusted with having this personal
responsibility anyway.

Please note that I am by no means attempting to take
anything away from fraternities as university social life is
truly dependent upon them. I merely want there to be a
level playing field and for the university to halt the bid-

eous discriminatory policy that they inflict upon indepen-

dent sophomore males and all sophomore females.
Thanks a lot for your time. -
—-name withheld

Evolution article correction

Dear Editor,

I have been dismayed to learn that few who heard me
speak at the recent discussion of creationism and evolu-
tion understood the crucial evidence that I cited. Unfor-
tunately, Max Smith’s report on the meeting, published
on the front page of the Phi (October 1 1,1999), does little
to clarify what I said. The text that I read in my opening
statement was far more explicit than Smith’s quote and
read as follows. “New species have been observed to
arise in nature during historical time.” I then went on to
name the new plant species (Spartina anglica, Tragopogon
mirus and Tragopogon miscellus) and the progenitors
from which they arose. Next, I said, “scientists have re-
synthesized naturally occurring species from their pro-
genitors.” I gave the example of “the naturally occurring
plant, Galeopsis tetrahit, which was resynthesized from
Galeopsis speciosa and Galeopsis pubescens by
Muntzing in the 1930s.” Finally, I cited “the important
crop plant and new genus, Triticosecale, known commonly
as Triticale, which was synthesized from Triticum (wheat)
and Secale (rye) by plant geneticists.” I added, “this was
a macroevolutionary step!”

I hope your readers will ponder these quotes. They are
important claims because they provide concrete evidence
that species arise from preexisting species and that higher
taxa (e.g. genera) arise merely by an accumulation of the
same kinds of differences that distinguish species. The
technical details supporting these claims are available for
all to study in the peer reviewed research literature. I don’t
think you’ll find these data in the Bible.

Sincerely,

John S. Knox

Professor of Biology

{""‘\:.,

K.g..fiuote of the Week:

{(

There was no sleeping involved.

—— Anonymous senior girl

)7

T I Iﬂnlckm How are you dealing with midterms?

“One at a time, one at a time.”
-Geoffrey Marshall ’02

“I’m not. I’m still in denial.”

 

-Pat Lawler ’03

“Not as good as I hoped I
would — not enough sleep.’
—Charene Jones ‘O2

“Same way you deal with a
brain tumor. . . not well.”
-Sarah Pollan ’0l

3

 

 

PAGE 4

W&E

iﬁing-tum iﬂhi

IF E

OCTOBER 25, 1999

Happy 10th birthday!

Chi Omega, Kappa Alpha Theta and Kappa Kappa
Gamma celebrated their 10th year on the W&L
campus with a huge birthday bash last Saturday.

Photo courtesy of Jessica Panillo

O  :3}
,“*"*a».-.. E

.,.~ -Q)
mass.»-b~aa4»..7....'¢s.z.».»u/ms~z->.«i~.»s..»~.;-av» ->...o...,a.;v §

Photo courtesy of Jessica Pairillo

HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO Us: (Above) Stephanie Leffler ’00, Stephanie Bianco ’01, Lauren
Ivanick ’01, Elizabeth Murchison ’01 and Kristi Peterson ’01 show off the delicious
birthday cakes made for each of the three sororities. “I think the birthday celebration
went really well,” Murchison said. “It gave all three sororities a chance to get together
to just have fun, put aside any differences that they might have and celebrate something
that they all have in common —— 10 years at W&L.”

HAVING A GREAT TIME: (Left) From the smiles on these Chi Omega sisters’ faces, the birthday
bash was a complete success. Sorority women munched on barbecue prepared by W&L
security officer Baner and danced to the sounds of the band BS&M while at the party.
“Everyone had so much fun,” Kappa sophomore Stephanie Sweet said. “Usually only two
sororities get together at one time, so it was great to have three this at this party.”

 

Trick or treat: spooky legends of All Hallow’s Eve

By Elianna Marziani
F EA TURES EDITOR

Knock, knock, knock. “Trick or
treat!” Virtually everyone has been
on either the giving or receiving end
of this October tradition. Few,

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

though, know how the holiday that
we call Halloween originated.

Most people trace Halloween’s
roots to a Druid festival of the dead
celebrated by Celtic tribes living over
2000 years ago in what today is the
United Kingdom. November 1st was
their New Year, when they had a joint
festival honoring their sun god and
Samhain, lord ofthe dead.

The Druids believed that on the
eve ofthis festival (hence our Octo-
ber 3 1 st), Samhain called together
the souls

of those
wicked
. p e o p l e
who had died in the past
year and released them
on the earth in the

  
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  

and witches. These spirits
returned to
their old

h o m e s

a n d
demanded
entertain-

ment from those currently living
there. The people built bon-
ﬁres to guide the spirits
and made a proper greet-
ing of food and
shelter avail-
able for the
spirits so

LEXINETHN

, (5;/(;<’.(/I’cI(/.1‘//}(/y ();I.

FRESH EACH MORNING
ESPRESSO * CAPPUCCINO - FRESH ROASTED COEFEES - FINE TEAS
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET O LEXINGTON - 464-6586

forms of ghosts, spirits,‘

that they would not ruin their crops,
kill their babies or otherwise haunt
them. Some people believe that this
practice was the root of current
“trick-or-treating.” The celebration
of Samhain involved nuts, apples,
skeletons, witches, and black cats,
and was a night of the supernatural.

The Romans conquered the Dru-
ids, but they kept part of the druidic
holiday tradition alive by continuing
to pray for the dead during that time
of the year. They had a holiday in
February called Feralia to give rest
to the dead. Pope Boniface IV re-
placed the pagan festival with a
church day in May for remembering
the dead. In 834 A.D., Gregory IV
named All Saints’ Day the official
church calendar day for remember-
ing the dead, celebrated November
1st. Our current day Halloween is the
eve of All Saints’ Day: the Eve of All
Hallows, hence Halloween.

Because of the apparent link to
Druidic cultish tradition, some
groups throughout the United States
do not celebrate Halloween. Some
parents do not want their children
involved in a holiday that has dru-
idic origin and involved interaction
with evil spirits.

Other groups believe that the his-
tory indicated above is ﬂawed be-
cause the Druids had an oral tradi-
tion and did not write things down,
so any history of them was probably
written by unfriendly Romans. Oth-
ers doubt the likelihood of the blend-
ing of pagan beliefs into a Roman
holiday because the Roman culture

_ cial student newspaper.

Subscribe!

News, sports,
campus life, student
opinions, humor,
special events and

so much more!

Parents: Keep up
with all the events at
your kid’s school by
subscribing to the Ring-
tum Phi, W&L’s ofﬁ-

Send your name, ad-

dress and $30 to:

The Ring-Tum Phi
University Center Room 208
Washington & Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450

was never present in Ireland, so it is
unlikely that Roman culture was in-
ﬂuenced by Irish beliefs. In addition,
many argue that whatever Halloween
once was, it is an entirely different
entity in the modern day United
States, an innocent and fun diversion
for children of all ages.

Differing views also surround the
origins of current Halloween tradi-
tions, such as trick-or-treating and
carving jack-0-lantems.

Most accounts agree that jack-0-
lantems come from the Irish. An Irish
folktale held that there was an evil
man named Jack who was constantly
being tormented by the devil. One
day, he caught the devil in a tree and
would not let him down without the
promise that he would never bother

Jack again. About a year thereafter,
Jack died. His evil life caused him to
be denied entrance to heaven, and
the devil would not even let him into
hell to spite Jack for the tree incident.
The devil threw a burning coal to
Jack, to light his way as he searched
the world for a home. Jack put the
burning coal in a turnip and used it
as a lantern to guide him on hisjour-
ney. The Irish used turnips to make
their jack-0-lantems initially, but af-
ter emigrating to America they
switched to pumpkins, which were
in much greater abundance.

Many believe that trick-or-treat-
ing originated from the old Irish peas-
ant practice of going door—to-door to
collect money and different foods in
preparation for their celebration hon-

oring St. Columb Kill. Others trace it
to an event much closer to home:
vandalism in the l920’s USA. They
say that in the l920’s vandalism in
U.S. cities got so bad that communi-
ties would host “beggar’s nights”
when children would go to shops and
private homes to get treats, thus
keeping the troublemakers away.
They hold that the phrase “trick or
treat” became common in association
with these nights.

Whatever the origin, Halloween is
still alive and thriving in the United
States today. A glimpse at Lexington
will prove this. Following the lead of
the Roanoke city council, many citi-
zens plan to host Halloween festivi-
ties around town on Saturday night
rather than on Sunday night.

 

 

rU’Pc,i  ' 7 events, _ . 4:00p.m.  Mathematics Departmentstudentre
L z (I I I  ' ° F j poi1sonsin1mmpmJectsBiyaiitAdanis
, V ' ' ~ . ~ V . " . ’01aid‘r?milieWIesi1er’00.Room6,
“ ‘ _ L V '~  Hall.
 7:30 p.m. H Film Society. “Gods andyMonsters”
. 0 . (USA, 1998),diie'aedbyBi1lCondon.
'l‘ioubadourCinema.
8:00p.m. _ Parents’  Concert. Lee
Saturday; October 30
‘ 10:00a.m. ' Student recital. duPont Auditorium.
’ 10:00a.m.- V Rockbridgei SPCA bake sale at
. 1:00 pm. 0 Kroger’s. ’ S
' 11530 a.m.; Report to parents. President John
, _ .  P _. Eirod. Leechapel.
F l S‘  12-1:20 p.m. Parents Weekend luncheon. Front
Monday, October 25 . —  » \ F Lawn
.7-9:00 p-m- MockC°nVénﬁ0n.Dé1egateFairé 12:30 p.m. yoneybaii. W&L vs.Randolph—Ma-
A ’  Gym , ’ con. Warner Center.
- 8:00 p;-m-. Theatwseries. “Anns andthe Man”by 1:00 p.m. Football. W&L vs_.Bi1'dgewaterCol
D Ge0rgeBemaniShaw.I>irectedbyAl lege. Wilson Field. .
Gordon. Johnson Theatre, Lenfest Center. ‘ V 1:99 pm, swimming(M&w)_w&L vs_
« _ 3 g . " * MarymountUniversity. Twombly
‘ Tuesday, October 26 1. . '1S’°°;-e B A _ . _ . f
7-9:00 pm. Mock Convention Delegate Fair. -00. Pm’ 0 m m at ssoclaiwn picimc or
, law students and their families.
Doremus Gym. ,
_ - Sydney Lewis Hall Lawn.
8.00 p.m. Lenfest Series. The Waverly 2.00 Th S . “Arm d th
Consort presents “Revelation 1000- ‘ p'm' Mailfgy Zréeoige Bags: Shfw Di_
2000" Keller Theatre’ Lenfest rected by Al Gordon. Johnson The-
atre, Lenfest Center.
Thursday! October‘ 28 ‘ 5:00 p.m. 0rphan’s dinner for international stu-
4 :00 p.m. Math department colloquium. dems_ Bys oasis_
wrh‘?Va1“°5 °l-Pi,” 1°?“ Term“: Uni‘ 6:00 pm. Acapella concert. JubiLee, Southern
versity of North Carolina. Room 6, Comfort and General Admission. Lee
Robinson Hall. chape1, ' ‘
7:30 p.m. Film Society. “Gods and Monsters”
Friday, October 29 (USA.1998).di1re_ctedbyBil1Condon.
10:00a.m. Seniorsbeginwintertennweb » Tr°“bad°‘1fCin¢m°~ _ , _
mgisuaﬁom 8:00 p.m. Parents Weekend University Wind
3:30 pm mm Sigma  Leechapd Ensemble concert. Keller Theatre,
4-5:30p.In. Piesident’sOpenHouse for freshmen L°“f°S“3°“"='-
and patents Lee. House.
4:00 pm Theatre Series. “Aims and the Man,” by SUFICICIY, OCTO ber 31
George Bernard Shaw. Johnson Theatre,
LenfestCcnter. All Day Daylight Saving Time ends.

2'

 

F

ii.

 

OCTOBER 25, 1999

 “RT s

PAGE 5

Football grabs two: the start of a streak?

By Mike Weil

STA FF WRITER

The Washington and Lee football team has often fell
victim to blowing big leads this season. Saturday the Gen-
erals reversed their fortunes, pulling off a 31-28 comeback
victory at Sewanee. The Tigers dominated the ﬁrst quarter,
starting off the scoring with a 10-yard touchdown pass by
quarterback Max Fuller 10:46 into the game. The lead would
double on Fuller’s one—yard quarterback sneak, ending the
first quarter with a Sewanee 14-0 lead.

The Generals showed excellent poise and heart as they
have done all season by not letting this lead deﬂate them.
Freshman standout Chris Sullivan cut the lead in half with

Women’s
soccer ﬁnds
focus in loss

By Frances Groberg

SPORTS EDITOR

The women’s soccer season has been one full of ups
and downs, and certainly bumps and bruises. Saturday’s
game against Randolph Macon was no exception.

The Generals went into the match tied for third in the
ODAC with the Yellow Jackets, and although the game did
not end in their favor, the team may have gained something
much more important: conﬁdence and ateam mentality.

The Yellow Jackets scored first, just 13 minutes into the
game, but the Generals roared back just 57 seconds later
with a goal from freshman Jenny Thomas. Fellow freshman
Ruth Hill Yielding put the team up 2-1 early in the second
half off a pass from junior captain Shana Levine.

Randolph Macon answered back with two goals of its
own, making the score 3-2. From the Generals’ point of
view, however, one of those goals should not have counted.

“From our point of view, there were three or four people
offsides when the ball was sent into the box,” Head coach
Jan Hathom said. “The officiating on that call was sus-
pect at best.”

Despite a ﬂurry of opportunities in the ﬁnal minutes of
play, the buzzer sounded without another General goal.

“We were pounding them in the last four or five min-
utes, but it just turned out to be one of those games when
a bounce of the ball makes the difference,” Hathom said.

Though they lost, the Generals scored a victory in
another category. “We played for the whole 90 minutes
for the first time,” Levine said. “It was a great overall trip
for the team.”

Hathom applauded the team’s gutsy effort. “It was
the kind ofteam effort and heart we’d been searching for
all season.”

Thursday’s game against Emory and Henry put one in
the win column for the Generals, 1-0. Sophomore forward
Noelle Beckman scored the only goal of the game, her
third of the season. The Wasps managed only three shots
on the game to the Generals’ 18.

With its regular season over, the Generals head to the
ODAC tournament as the fourth seed behind Lynchburg,
Roanoke, and RMC. The team will take on Virginia Wesleyan
in the ﬁrst round on Tuesday at the Liberty Hall Fields.

The Generals beat Wesleyan by a score of 2-0 earlier
in the season, but Hathom is very hesitant to count them
out as a serious opponent. “Roanoke only beat them by
one, and that was on a penalty kick. They’re at their peak
right now.”

a two-yard touchdown run early in the
second quarter. Only ﬁve minutes later
senior fullback Scott Moses plunged two
yards into the endzone to end a roller
coaster half tied at 14.

W&L lost its momentum 2:54 into the
second half, as the Tigers picked off a pass
by senior quarterback Christian Batcheller
and returned it 10 yards to paydirt for the
only points of the third quarter. But
Batcheller refused to let the interception
effect his play. He responded just 36 sec-
onds into the fourth quarter with a 41 -yard touchdown strike
to freshman tight end Davis White to tie the game at 21.

Ct

Sullivan

lt’s about time
something went
our way.

— Freshman Chris

Sewanee rebounded with l 1 :22 to go as Fuller
tallied his second rushing touchdown of the
game, this time from two yards out.

The Generals refused to let this one go.
Andy Vendig’s 34-yard field goal cut the
lead to 28-24 with 5 :09 to play, and Sullivan’s
four yard touchdown run gave the Generals
a three-point lead less than a minute later.

Sophomore linebacker Jeff Bahl provided
the last big defensive play needed to seal
9 9 the game. With :50 seconds to play and the

Tigers driving in W&L territory, Bahl recov-
ered a fumble ending the game as a 31-28 General victory.
Bahl’s fumble recovery gave him four on the day, to go

By Sarah Schmidt-

STAFF WRITER

The W&L volleyball team made the most of Reading
Days, traveling to Atlanta to take part in the Emory
Invitational. The Generals faced a strong ﬁeld, includ-
ing Greensboro College, the team that ended their six
match winning streak.

W&L started the weekend by falling to Averett Col-
lege (15-10, 17-15, 15-10) on Friday evening. Averett is
ranked eighth in the South Region and is a likely fnst
round opponent for the Generals in the national touma-
ment. The squad went on to defeat North Carolina
Wesleyan later that night (14-16, 15-6, 12-15, 15-8, 15-
1 1). The Generals went 2-2 on Saturday as well. W&L
came out on top against Greensboro, putting them away
inthree games(15-12,16-14, 15-6). Leadingthe way for
the Generals was sophomore middle blocker Lindsay
Ruckert, who finished with 13 kills and 1 1 digs. Senior
outside hitter Nancy Reinhart racked up eight kills, four
blocks and 10 digs. Junior setter Katherine Kline con-
tributed a team-high 22 assists.

Next up for the Generals was the host Emory, ranked
12th. W&L fell in fourgames(5-15,, 15-11,1—15, 14-16).
Reinhart notched 15 kills and 18 digs in the loss. Ruckert
tallied 12 kills and 19 digs while junior outside hitter
Tori Hays totaled 19 digs. Kline once again led the set-
ters with 29 assists. Ruckert’s efforts earned her a spot
on the all-tournament team while Reinhart surpassed
Hilary Martin’s (1994-97) career record for kills, setting
a new W&L record of 1,091. Reinhart already claimed
the ODAC record for career digs in the ﬁrst match against
Greensboro earlier this season.

"ﬂfoie Eastern Mennonite on Thursday. W&L sent EMU

I112 G§n£I:dl.S_9aI_I1¢ backihorne to take on.conferenc_e..

    

92%»
photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editor

ANYBODY FOR SECONDS? Junior setter Katherine Kline serves one up for the Generals.

Volleyball digging for gold

packing after three games (15-6, 15-3, 15-3.) The match
continued W&L’s dominance over the ODAC as they
improved their conference record to 8-0. Ruckert and
Reinhart led the way again, tallying 11 and six kills,
respectively. Reinhart also added 12 digs in her quest
to break another ODAC record. Kline came up with 20
assists in the effort.

W&L had another big weekend this weekend, tak-
ing on Greensboro again and Centre College in the W&L
tri-match. The Generals split the matches, defeating
Greensboro in the ﬁrst match of the day (15-9, 15-9’, 10-
15, 15-12) and falling to Centre in the last bout of the
weekend(11-15,15-12,15-11, 15-7). Inthewinagainst
Greensboro, Reinhart totaled 12 kills and 21 digs.
Ruckert dominated the net with 1 1 kills, 3 solo blocks,
and 1 block assist. Hays came up big on the back line
for the Generals with 21 digs while Kline notched 33
assists. W&L set the pace in the first two games, but
after jumping out to an early lead a series of serving
defaults and defensive miscommunications downed the
Generals in the second game. W&L was able to put the
match away in the fourth game. The Generals now post
a 2-1 advantage over arch-rival Greensboro this sea-
son. This is the last regular season match-up between
the two teams, but there is a good chance they may
face eachother in the national tournament.

The ﬁnal match between W&L and Centre ended in
a W&L loss, leaving unranked Centre (9-18) the only
team to escape the tri-match without a loss. Ruckert
totaled 23 kills and 15 digs, while Reinhart fmished with
12 kills and 27 digs. Freshman outside hitter Stacy
Kimmel posted seven kills and 17 digs. Kline once again
led the setters with 32 assists. The Generals resume

-..act.i.0_I1..agai_I1St0DA9.9EP9I!§I!l.1S9ﬂ9lSQQQll§$11118;- .

day in Roanoke.

Swimming splits season opener
Women defeat Transylvania (154-108); Men fall (138-122)

By Steele Cooper

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s and women’s swim
teams hosted Transylvania University on Saturday. The
Generals split the dual meet with the men’s squad falling to
the Pioneers 138-122 and the women winning their meet
154-108.

The women came away with the win in the ﬁrst meet of
the season driven by a strong group of returning swim-
mers and an impressive freshmen class. The squad looks
prepared to further build on the strength of last year’s
season especially after the performances from underclass-
men swimmers.

Leading the Generals with three wins apiece were fresh-
man Blair Huffman and sophomore Katie Kennedy.

Senior Lauren Beckenhuaer, freshman Kelli Austin,
sophomore Laura Ingoldsby and the 200 free relay team of
Ingoldsby, sophomore Cynthia Smith, senior Lezael
Haynes, and freshman Katherine Kolle all posted wins for
W&L.

Last season, W&L’s women’s swim team defeated
Transylvania in an incredibly close match that came down
to the ﬁnal relay of the day.

Again this year, the competition tested the Generals.
“We were evenly matched teams but we came out on top,”
Huffman said. After this win the Generals are looking for-
ward to another successful season.

“I think we’re going to have a great season,” Ingoldsby
said. “We’ve gotten a lot stronger and this meet wasn’t as
close as it was last year.”

Changes to the Generals’ training regimen have made
an impact as evident by their performance on Saturday.

“We were in great shape for the beginning of the season
and we’ 11 only improve upon that. Now that we lift weights
together as a team we have the added strength and endur-
ance that we’ll need in future meets,” Ingoldsby said.

“We’re going to surprise a lot of teams this year, and 1
think that we’re a lot tougher than we were last year,”
Ingoldsby said.

The men’s team may have dropped their season opener
to Transylvania but prospects for the season still remain
high.

Freshman Pat Frankfort led the men’s team with three
individual wins. Junior Colin Hayes won two events for
the Generals’ cause.

Senior Jared Fribush continued his unwavering domi-
nance in the sprints with a win in the 50 free. Fribush’s
time of 22.20 seconds set the new meet record.

That performance was one more in slew of individual
meet, conference, and All-American honors that Fribush
has racked up over the course of his storied career as a
General.

With seven retuming letter winners on the men’s side,
accompanied by the promising performance of Frankfort,
the talent is there for a winning season. ‘

“The team is going to be strong again this year. We’ve
got the strong retumers and the solid talent in the fresh-
men class that a team needs to continue success,” said
Fribush. “I know that we will continue to improve through-
out the season. We all have a good outlook for where the
team is going this year.”

The men’s and women’s teams will face Marymount
University on Saturday for their second meet of the sea-
son. Meet time is scheduled for 1:00 p.m. in the Cy
Twombly Pool.

 

;_ .
,.:.:. 2- t



along with his 15 tackles, sack, and pass deﬂection.

The Generals’ season, which looked so bleak only two
weeks ago at 1-4, is now becoming respectable. Aﬁer being
on the downside of many comebacks this season, beating
favored Sewanee on the road does wonders for the players’
conﬁdence. “lt’s about time something went our way,” said
Sullivan who rushed for two touchdowns. “It just gets
frustrating after a while. Aside from the first game we
haven’t lost by more than a touchdown. When you win‘,
the players start having fun and playing better football.
Winning two straight games can only improve conﬁdence.”

The Generals look to use this conﬁdence to reach the
500 mark this Saturday against a hot Bridgewater squad

Kickoff at 1 :00. ‘

Men’s soccer
hopeful after
ODAC wins

Generals improve to 8-6

By Robert Turner

STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee’s men’s soccer team
capped offa busy and impressive week Saturday with
an hard fought 1-0 win over Guilford College in Greens-
boro, North Carolina. The match’s lone goal came at

the 13:00 minute
C 6

mark ofthe ﬁrst half
when sophomore
If everything
goes right we’ll

Andrew Grimes
scored a nice goal
off a cross from se-
nior captain Scott

W1-n thﬁ LeToumeau.
The ODAC vic-
tOurnaII1Cnt. tory improved the
_Sem-or Matt Generals’ overall
Arnold record to 8-6 and 5-

3 ' fe e ce
,7 plaliyln con r n

The Generals
also had two other games this week, coming away with
victories in both contests. On Thursday W & L eas-
ily defeated Ferrum 5-1, getting two early goals from
senior Jamie Parker followed by scores from senior
Jon Wilson,junior Jacek Mucha, and freshman Micheal
Stoeckle. The Generals tallied all ﬁve of their goals
before Ferrum put a shot on the scoreboard. ,

Tuesday the Generals got another important ODAC
victory over in-state rival Lynchburg, winning 1-0 
hind another goal from Mucha. This game concluded
an especially successful week for the Generals’ de-
fense, anchored by goalies freshman Brad Hearn, fresh-
man Tim Foley, and junior Jordan Ginsberg. The team
narrowly outshot Lynchburg 13-12 in the game. ’

The Generals leave this triumphant week looking for-
ward the conclusion of their regular season and the
ODAC tournament. 

“The team is really confident right now going into
the tournament that we will perform well against all
our ODAC foes, and that on any given day we can
beat all nice of them” Arnold said, adding that “if
everything goes right, we will win the tournamentf.’

The Generals’ next step on their journey to the ODAC
crown is Wednesday against Bridgewater College. '

~: -Kiyrz

.x»..,,,,,§®_ﬁ§« "“~*‘aie.«s.. _

Photo by Emily Bames/Photo Editoi

THE ATTACK FROM THE BACK: Freshman Blair Huffman leads the pack of swimmers during Saturday’sE
meet against Transylvania. Huffman’s win in the individual medley was one of three she scored.‘

 

 

 

PAGE 6

.

vymgmr
cmuumu-
effective
cerhﬁcanon

LAST WORD

OCTOBER 25, 1999

Cigarette manufacturers cough up $500 billion

By Kevin McManemin

T HE M4DC‘AP LAUGHS

$500 billion. That’s a hell ofa lot
ofmoney. It’s more money than most
continents make in a year. In fact,
that’s so much money, it would take
Bill Gates almost 37 hours to make
that much!

$500 billion is the amount of
money cigarette manufactures stand
to lose thanks to a couple of recent
decisions in our judicial system.
That’s right, the American judicial
system — the same folks who
brought you such ingenious bits of
jurisprudence as the “separate but
equal” doctrine, the OJ verdict and
the Judge Judy show. Only religions
and governments are allowed to be
so blatantly wrong so many times
and remain in business.

In case you haven’t heard, last
week a Florida court ruled that smok-

 

How does this man live with himself?
Why can’t the police stop him before he
produces again? Are we just supposed
to sit back and do nothing while he

gives the green light to “It’s Pat II?”

ers may file a class-action suit
against tobacco companies, which
may cost the industry upwards of
$300 billion. Add this to the $206 bil-
lion the tobacco industry agreed to
pay the Federal government last No-
vember and you’ve got some $500-
odd billion the tobacco folks are
going to be in the hole. And for
what? For being good capitalists.
For providing a product near and
dear to the hearts and lungs of mil-
lions of Americans; a product that
has been helping high school kids
look “cool” for generations.

It seems our society’s conception
of personal responsibility has been
eroded as signiﬁcantly as the pres-
tige of the phrase “produced by
Lorne Michaels.” By what possible
stretch of legal logic can the court
see ﬁt to actually award the people
who spent years putting hideous,
foul-smelling little cancer factories
in their mouths and puff-
ing? Granted, the tobacco
industry has been less than
forthright in the past about
the health consequences
of smoking — but so what?
For the past thirty years,
any remotely intelligent
person has known exactly
what smoking does (and
look, I’m not talking “re-
motely intelligent” like a
parakeet or a bowl of sur-
prisingly clever pudding
might be “remotely intelli-
gent,” I mean “remotely in-
telligent” as in “entirely
otherwise worthless but
showing the faintest glim-
mer of any sign of a tiny
chance that there may be,
mired deep within the over-
whelming conﬁnes ofrock—
like-ignorance, some sem-
blance ofa sort ofsimplis—
tic kind of cognitive func-
tion whatsoever, even if at

a basic stimulus-response level, like

a paramecium or a Backstreet Boy”).
So, therefore, we have to place all

smokers into one oftwo categories:
1) Those who are notjust stupid,

but are so exhaustively pebble-

brained that their very

existence offends hu-

manity. 12-.

2) Those who knew
exactly what they were
doing, and as such
should be held entirely
responsible.

We live in a country
where gun manufactur-
ers are allowed practi-
cally free reign while
cigarette companies
are treated like the off-
spring of Hitler and
Lorne Michaels. (Sorry for all the
Lorne bashing, but the man just pro-
duced an entire movie on the Mary
Katherine Gallagher sketch, the
least-funny SNL sketch with the
least-funny character of the least-tal-
ented cast member since Kevin
Nealon.) A

So who wins when the cigarette
industry is docked $500 billion?
Clearly not the industry itself. How
about ‘the American
people? Our government
is getting a hefty check
for $206 billion out of
the deal. As a non-
smoker, I can appreciate
that I’m not going to
waste my tax dollars
keeping emphysema-
riddled morons alive
through Medicare and
Medicaid. But‘ then
again, I don’t think I
should have to spend
my tax dollars giving old
people trips to Atlantic
City every Social Security payday,
either. Part of democracy is paying
for crap you don’t like, and is it re-

  
 

Ma

 

COMING OF AGE

ART & NATURE

of error: 3%.

Question of the week: which
sounds like the most horribly

dull section of English 105 of-
fered winter term?

THIIETERNTHJFEDHFHNE
]"USTICE & CHARACTER
LITERATURE 8: TECHNOLOGY

Poll asked of 1,578 random W&L students. Margin

43%
24%
15%
20%
18%

  

Student Travel
from A to Z

    

London 130
Paris 178
Barcelona 21?
Amsterdam 196
From Washington

each way based on a rt
purchase. Fares do not
include taxes, are
valid for departures

in November and are
subject to change.

Restrictions apply.

1-800-ZCOUNCIL

I

   
  

 
 
 

“Because vou
iutl weren't lucky
enough to be an
orphan"

    
  

with Snapple

knitted on

Before the follcs arrive, did you
remember to:

— get the used condoms out of your sheets
—— get rid of all the good stuff and restock the fridge

_— body piercings out, that ugly sweater grandma

— replace your hemp plants with gladiolas
— goodbye Playboy, hello Newsweek
—— inform your folks that all of your professors are
coincidentally going away this weekend

Parents Weekend tip: ﬁnd the person in your dorm from
Alaska. Chances are his/her folks ain‘t coming, so you can all
hide your bongs in the Alaskan‘s room for the weekend.

  

' 4 trln tI';AREV1l'\


n

 

5aIr_="r'r1

 

ally worth the extra money if it means
crippling the only remaining indus-
try we’re better at than the Japa-
nese?

And I want to know why the
fatsos are getting offso easy. I mean,
it’s scientiﬁcally proven
that overweight people
are several times more
likely to have serious
health problems, per-
haps even more prob-
lems than smokers. I
don’t think it’s fair that
my taxes should have to
pay so some tubby lardo
can sit on his couch
gorging on bag after bag
of barbecue-ﬂavored po-
tato chips and then rack-
ing up the Medicare bills
for his third triple bypass of the
month. So why isn’t the government
going after snack food manufactures

ii

    
 

-if they’re going to prosecute ciga-

rette makers?

Finally, the smokers themselves
are certainly not going to come out
ahead here. $300 billion divided by
millions of smokers divided by law-
yers fees = about 98 cents a smoker
(before tax). How do you think RJ
Reynolds is going to foot
the bill? Just explain
nicely to their investors
that they’ve had a very
hard year, and, “sorry,
shareholders, we can’t
raise prices just to keep up
proﬁt margins?” Of course
not. They’rejust going to
raise the price of cigarettes
to about nine bucks a pack
and take all the money
right back from the ad-
dicts. The court is not
helping smokers; it’s actu-
ally obliquely taxing them.

Well my ﬁne friends, 224 years
ago, an inbred Euro twit named King
George wanted to impose a moder-

ate tax on tea, but a bunch of drunk
Boston rufﬁans decided to dump it in
the harbor rather than submit to tyr-
anny. And from this act sprouted a
proud heritage: the
heritage of all
Bostonians to get plas-
tered and act like idiots
regularly. Also,
America.

Smokers, are you re-
ally so pathetic and
weak-willed that not
only can’t you summon
up the basic courage to
quit a ﬁlthy, destructive
habit, but that when

 

think it’s time you took a stand for
your God-given right to rape your
lungs for a reasonable price. It’ s time
to take every last ludicrously over-
taxed carton of Camels,
Kools, Newps, Marbs,
and yes, even Lucky
Strikes, and go out, ﬁnd
the nearest harbor and
dump ‘em in the water.
Destroy your beloved
cigarettes like Lorne
Michaels destroyed
American comedy rather
than submit to The Man’s
tyranny over your lives.

And don’t worry if‘ I

someone threatens to price it out of you miss the party; the harbor should

existence you’re just going to roll
over and cry rather than ﬁght back? I

be easy enough to ﬁnd. Just listen
for the coughing ﬁsh.

Neverclear

190 Il|'00l grain alcohol

 

‘A few shots and you'll never be
clear what happened that night

A Last Word fake ad

 

OI999 Tho coca-cote Company. ‘Nestea’ h u ngmena vudomrk Itcomod to coco-Col: Nuns Rcfruhmnntx company. USA.

Now might be a good time to grab a CO0Lfrom Nestea at
W & L Snack Bar. Better still, use this coupon to buy one
2002 and get one FREE. Offer expires 11/15/99.

